fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 1REVIEWpublished: 30 April 2021doi: 10.3389/fenvs.2021.617952Edited by:Philippe C. Baveye,AgroParisTech Institut des Scienceset Industries du Vivant etde L’Environnement, FranceReviewed by:Yuntao Hu,Lawrence Berkeley NationalLaboratory, United StatesNa Li,Northeast Institute of Geographyand Agroecology, Chinese Academyof Science, China*Correspondence:David P . Overydavid.overy@canada.caEdward G. Gregoriched.gregorich@canada.caSpecialty section:This article was submitted toSoil Processes,a section of the journalFrontiers in Environmental ScienceReceived: 15 October 2020Accepted: 31 March 2021Published: 30 April 2021Citation:Overy DP , Bell MA, Habtewold J,Helgason BL and Gregorich EG(2021) “Omics” Technologiesfor the Study of Soil CarbonStabilization: A Review.Front. Environ. Sci. 9:617952.doi: 10.3389/fenvs.2021.617952“Omics” Technologies for the Studyof Soil Carbon Stabilization:A ReviewDavid P. Overy1*, Madison A. Bell1, Jemaneh Habtewold1, Bobbi L. Helgason2andEdward G. Gregorich1*1Ottawa Research and Development Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Ottawa, ON, Canada,2Department of SoilScience, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, CanadaEvidence-based decisions governing sustainable agricultural land managementpractices require a mechanistic understanding of soil organic matter (SOM)transformations and stabilization of carbon in soil. Large amounts of carbon fromorganic fertilizers, root exudates, and crop residues are input into agricultural soils.Microbes then catalyze soil biogeochemical processes including carbon extracellulartransformation, mineralization, and assimilation of resources that are later returned tothe soil as metabolites and necromass. A systems biology approach for a holisticstudy of the transformation of carbon inputs into stable SOM requires the useof soil “omics” platforms (metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, metaproteomics, andmetabolomics). Linking the data derived from these various platforms will enhanceour knowledge of structure and function of the microbial communities involved in soilcarbon cycling and stabilization. In this review, we discuss the application, potential,and suitability of different “omics” approaches (independently and in combination)for elucidating processes involved in the transformation of stable carbon in soil. Wehighlight biases associated with these approaches including limitations of the methods,experimental design, and soil sampling, as well as those associated with data analysisand interpretation.Keywords: carbon stabilization, metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, metaproteomics, metabolomics,metaphenomicsINTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUNDSoil organic matter (SOM) underpins the health and productivity of soil. Representing the largestcarbon (C) pool in terrestrial ecosystems, SOM plays a pivotal role in the global C cycle and climateregulation. Invested with the sun’s energy by photosynthesis, the continual inﬂux of C-rich plantlitter and exudates to the soil drives the C cycle as nutrients are released during decay and eventuallyabsorbed by growing plants or released/sequestered to the environment (Pelletier et al., 2011;Haberl et al., 2014; Amundson et al., 2015). The ability of the soil microbiome to access this energysource depends on several factors, many of which are inter-related. For example, the chemicalcomposition of plant litter entering soil, or the SOM itself, aﬀects the structure and activity of themicrobiome. The physical environment of where the SOM is located within the soil matrix aﬀectsthe soil water content and gas exchange, which in turn regulate microbial growth and activity. Also,Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 1 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 2Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationthe degree to which soil physically protects SOM (e.g.,within small pores or by chemical bonding to metals andmineral surfaces) may restrict access to it by the microbiome.Therefore, soil type, cropping sequence, soil management, andthe nutritional complexity of inputs to soil aﬀect the fate andturnover of C in soil. The turnover rate of this cycle aﬀects manyecosystem processes and properties: soil biodiversity—by deliveryof solar energy; plant growth—by providing soil nutrients; waterquality—by release of soluble nitrogen and phosphorus; climatechange—by exchange of CO 2and other greenhouse gases; andsoil resilience—by eﬀects on SOM stocks (Handa et al., 2014).Many of these inﬂuences are critical, especially now in the face ofglobal stresses such as growing food demands, changing climate,and loss of biodiversity (Lin, 2014). Improved knowledge of theprocesses that govern SOM stability and long-term C storageunder diﬀerent land use, management practices, and climateswill be important to identify practices that enhance and preservesoil health and productivity and the ongoing recycling andsupply of nutrients.The persistence and stability of soil organic C depends onits biotic and abiotic environment. In terrestrial ecosystems,SOM represents a continuum of organic compounds, fromfresh inputs like plant litter to progressively decomposedcompounds. Biological, physical, and chemical transformationprocesses convert plant root exudates and intact residuesinto derivative products that form complex and intimateassociations with soil minerals (Lehmann and Kleber, 2015).These transformative processes of SOM are determined byinterdependent factors that include: compound chemistry,spatial arrangement and interaction with mineral surfaces,temperature and moisture conditions, soil acidity and redoxstate, and the proximity, biomass, and community compositionof microbial degraders (Schmidt et al., 2011; Lehmann andKleber, 2015). SOM plays a key role in forming a stablephysical structure (aggregates and biopores) within the soilmatrix. This structure promotes aeration and the inﬁltrationand holding capacity of plant-available water as nutrients andenergy are released during decomposition, to promote soilfertility (Janzen, 2015; Lehmann and Kleber, 2015; Liang et al.,2017).Within soil ( Figure 1 ), microbial degradation of plant residuespromotes the release of C to the atmosphere through catabolismand at the same time, stabilizes C into forms of SOM that arenot easily decomposed (Schimel and Schaeﬀer, 2012; Liang et al.,2017). The accumulation of fungal and bacterial necromass viabiomass turnover is one of the main drivers of C-stabilizationof the SOM reservoir (Kindler et al., 2006; Schweigert et al.,2015; Kallenbach et al., 2016). Through microbial anabolism,accessible organic compounds are re-synthesized into moleculesthat are relatively more chemically stable (i.e., microbial cells,cell debris, and bioﬁlms); fungal residues are thought to be morepersistent in soils compared to bacterial residues (Six et al., 2006;Liang et al., 2017). In time, over the course of decomposition,the distinct chemistries of initial litter types (organic inputs)slowly converge following assimilation into microbial biomassand subsequent microbial turnover, into chemical compoundsthat serve as indicators of plant inputs (e.g., lignin phenols)and microbial metabolites and necromass (e.g., amino sugars)(Wickings et al., 2011; Kallenbach et al., 2016; Liang et al., 2017).Evidence-based decisions governing sustainable agriculturalland management practices require a mechanistic understandingof SOM transformations and C-stabilization in soil. Our currentknowledge of microbial population diversity and dynamics ofsoil communities is, in part, derived from the applicationof modern molecular biological tools. Signiﬁcant gaps in ourknowledge of microbial-mediated stabilization of soil C includea comprehensive knowledge of the speciﬁc compounds involved,their turnover rates, and the nature of their stabilizationmechanisms (Liang et al., 2017). Application of a systematicand biological approach has been proposed to study thesoil environment as a whole, employing “omics” tools tolink metabolic pathways and gene expression of microbialpopulations into structure–function relationships regarding soilC cycling and stabilization (Schmidt et al., 2011). Our aim in thisreview is to discuss the suitability of diﬀerent “omics” approaches(independently and in combination) in soil C transformationstudies. We also highlight potential methodological biasesassociated with these approaches, from limitations of themethods to experimental design and soil sampling to dataanalysis and interpretation.SOIL METAGENOMICS AND ITSAPPLICATIONS FOR SOIL CARBONSTABILIZATIONMetagenomics—General Context andCurrent ApplicationsCulture-based approaches used in the study of microbialpopulation dynamics substantially underestimate the diversityof the soil microbial community, the majority of which remainuncharacterized (Fierer, 2017). Although most soil microbescannot be cultured or grown in the lab outside of the soilmatrix (i.e., on/in deﬁned growth media), application of culture-independent molecular approaches such as metagenomics(Figures 2A,B ) has uncovered an extraordinary diversity ofmicroorganisms associated with the soil environment (Nesmeet al., 2016). Modern sequencing techniques have dramaticallyimproved our taxonomic understanding of soil microorganismsand have helped answer the question: “Who is there?, ” butthe next critical question of “Who’s doing what?” in termsof soil carbon stabilization has not been resolved. Combiningphylogenetic markers with functional measurements begins toaddress this problem (Cadotte et al., 2009). New approachesemploying stable isotopes (e.g.,13C and18O) to simultaneouslyevaluate soil processes and microbial community structures at thegenomic level are beginning to resolve the relationships betweenphylogeny and function. For example, stable isotope probingusing18O can be used to label DNA in bacterial cultures anddistinguish between newly grown cells and microorganisms thathave not grown during incubation (Schwartz et al., 2014).In terms of soil carbon stabilization, microbial communitiesare understood to contain speciﬁc keystone taxa that exhibitFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 2 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 3Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationFIGURE 1 | Nutrient cycling schematic demonstrating pathways for stabilization of soil organic matter (SOM). Plant inputs in the form of litter and exudates conditionthe physiology of the soil microbial community. Soil microbes directly assimilate some low molecular weight (LMW) molecules and produce extracellular enzymes todegrade high molecular weight (HMW) plant inputs, undergoing respiration (and mineralization of SOM) and biomass accumulation, ultimately resulting in a netincrease of stabilized C in the form of microbial necromass.functional redundancy and thus have strong positiveassociations during C cycling (Banerjee et al., 2016). In arigorous metagenomics study, Bahram et al. (2018) sequencedapproximately 160 million unique genes/gene fragments (withonly 0.5% overlap with published genomes) from 189 topsoilsamples collected from representative regions/biomes acrossthe globe. They concluded that bacterial taxonomic diversity,composition, richness, and biomass correlate with soil pH,nutrient concentration, and to a lesser extent climatic variables(Bahram et al., 2018). In comparison, similar characteristicsin fungi were more strongly correlated with soil C/N ratiosas a predictor for fungal biomass and relative abundanceand composition of gene functions; compared to bacteria,fungal global distribution was inﬂuenced by substrate/resourceavailability and energy demand variables (Bahram et al., 2018).Metagenomic approaches have been successfully applied toinvestigate the role of C-cycling genes associated with variousmanagement practices (e.g., addition of organic matter and/orfertilizers, and tillage practices) to predict C loss or storage inagricultural soils (Cline and Zak, 2015; Nivelle et al., 2016; Zhaoet al., 2016). Field experiments have shown that, in responseto frequent fertilizer and organic material additions, shiftsof the copiotrophic communities within the soil microbiomecoincide with respective changes in soil biochemical processes(Carbonetto et al., 2014). Conventional tillage and crop rotationmanagement practices impact soil microbial communities andare associated with an increase in abundance carbohydratemetabolism-related gene fragments (Souza et al., 2015). Carbon-cycling enzymes involved in biopolymer degradation (suchas glycosyltransferases, glycoside hydrolases, carbohydrateesterases, carbohydrate-binding modules, and polysaccharidelyases) are characteristically associated with biogeochemicaltransformations in soil (Howe et al., 2016). Although diﬀerencesin the relative abundance of these genes have been observed invarious soil types, the fact that representative gene fragmentswere detected in multiple soil samples from a fertilized tall grassprairie indicates the ubiquity of the microbial potential to driveC cycling in soils (Howe et al., 2016).Current Metagenomics LimitationsTargeted gene sequencing or shotgun sequencing of genefragments are common approaches used in soil metagenomicsFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 3 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 4Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationFIGURE 2 | Soil metagenomics and metatranscriptomic studies provide insight into population diversity and functional dynamics of soil microbial communities.Targeted gene sequencing (A)or shotgun sequencing of gene fragments (B)are common soil metagenomics approaches used to examine microbial populationcomposition and can focus on particular gene sequences encoding for enzymes and other proteins involved with functional ecosystem processes.Metatranscriptomics involves the extraction of RNA, targeted ampliﬁcation (C)or fragmentation (D), and conversion to cDNA prior to DNA sequencing, to providecontemporaneous information of community functional processes (such as SOM stabilization) actively occurring in soil.studies (Nesme et al., 2016). Using phylogenetic barcoding genes,targeted soil metagenomics applications examine microbialpopulation composition at a resolution of taxonomic orderor higher (some studies attempt to annotate to the genus orspecies levels). But in this context, primer and PCR biasesneed to be considered because they can often skew populationpredictions (Sipos et al., 2007) and indeed important soil taxa(e.g., Verrucomicrobia) have been previously overlooked bycommonly used “universal” bacterial 16S ribosomal ribonucleicacids (rRNA) gene primers (Bergmann et al., 2011). Moreover,the use of barcoding genes only provides information regardingmicrobial population diversity/composition and does notprovide resolution toward population function. Here, targetedsequencing analyses that focus on particular gene sequencesencoding for enzymes and other proteins involved withfunctional ecosystem processes are required. The future ofmetagenomics applications toward the prediction of the fullfunctional potential of a soil microbial population will requiredeep sequencing eﬀorts done at the full genome level; however,reconstruction of “population genomes” from biologicallyFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 4 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 5Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationcomplex samples such as soil is currently diﬃcult as genomeclosure remains a challenge (Sharon and Banﬁeld, 2013;Prosser, 2015).Soil metagenomics has proven to be useful for characterizingthe soil microbiome, but like all tools, there are inherentlimitations and biases. Several of these limitations and biases arecommon to all molecular techniques associated with cell lysis,eﬃcient nucleic acid extraction and stability, and sequencingerrors that aﬀect reliable gene annotation and quantiﬁcationof shotgun environmental gene sequences. Moreover, theassignment of observed sequences to speciﬁc taxa is diﬃcultand not always possible (Prosser, 2015). To address some ofthese limitations, data analysis pipelines (e.g., MEGAN, Mothur,Qiime, DADA2, and Deblur) are available that can selectivelyremove or correct erroneous sequences (Huson et al., 2007;Schloss et al., 2009; Caporaso et al., 2010; Callahan et al.,2016; Amir et al., 2017). Also common to high-throughputsequencing approaches is the challenge that the data generatedare compositional. That is, the total number of sequencesgenerated is arbitrary and inﬂuenced by sequencing instrument,which imposes constraints for data analysis and interpretation(Gloor et al., 2017).Other limitations involved in using metagenomics insoil research are related to working with a physicallyheterogeneous material. For example, eﬃcient extractionof DNA requires complete dispersion of soil aggregatesand detachment of cells from a broad range of soil typesand textures. Hence, repeated extractions of a given soilsample may be necessary to maximize cell yield (Williamsonet al., 2011). The cells obtained through repeated extractionsmay capture unique assemblages of microbes that wouldotherwise have been missed in single-pass extractions.Despite homogenization of soil samples prior to nucleicacid extraction, most DNA extractions are performed on asmall sub-sample (less than 1 g). Even with the use of technicalreplicates, it is possible that bias occurs as a result of thesmall sample mass.Soil microbial communities are dynamic and active membersof a population ﬂuctuate, where at any one point in time, asigniﬁcant proportion of the community may be dead or dormant(Blagodatskaya and Kuzyakov, 2013). As amplicon-based orshotgun metagenomics cannot diﬀerentiate between active,dead/dormant, and relic DNA (Carini et al., 2016) (qualitatively,the presence of a functional gene is not evidence of its activity;Prosser, 2015), a complete portrayal of active soil functions atthe time of sampling is not possible (rather such techniquesprovide a prediction of potential soil function—past, present,and future). Caution is required when assuming links betweenmicrobial activity and relative gene abundance (Prosser, 2015).Accurate separation of functional variation from taxonomicvariation within metagenomics data is also necessary, if deeperinsight into microbial community assembly and mechanisticsoil microbial ecology is to be achieved (Louca et al., 2016).However, despite these limitations, metagenomics approachescan be used to make hypotheses regarding how microbialpopulations respond as environmental and soil managementconditions change.SOIL METATRANSCRIPTOMICS AND ITSAPPLICATIONS FOR SOIL CARBONSTABILIZATIONMetatranscriptomics—General Contextand Current ApplicationsGrowth and metabolism of soil microbial communities involvethe transcription of genes into ribonucleic acids (RNA);molecules that are physically involved with protein assemblyin the cell (e.g., rRNA and tRNA) or carry speciﬁc templateinformation for protein translation [messenger RNA (mRNA)].Soil metatranscriptomics strives to represent the total RNAin soil ( Figures 2C,D ) and RNA expression and transcriptionis typically an indicator of the live and active members ofa microbial community (Blagodatskaya and Kuzyakov, 2013).Therefore, application of soil metatranscriptomics tools to thestudy of carbon stabilization in soil provides contemporaneouscommunity population and functional information aboutprocesses that are actively occurring in soil.In comparison to metagenomics studies, there are relativelyfew metatranscriptomics studies in the literature that investigatesoil carbon cycling in agricultural soils. One study of noteinvestigated the eﬀects of adding wood ash amendmentsto agricultural soil. Wood ash amendment can aﬀect soilphysicochemical parameters and inﬂuence soil microbialcommunity composition and functional expression, primarilyrelated to soil chemical properties (increased pH, electricalconductivity, dissolved organic carbon, and phosphate)(Bang-Andreasen et al., 2020). Addition of the wood ashamendments caused an increase in genes associated withcopiotrophic microbial subpopulations (rRNA); in general, morefunctional genes (mRNA) were observed to be upregulatedthan downregulated, with the majority originating fromfour functional categories: “post-translation modiﬁcation,protein turnover and chaperones”; “transcription”; “replication,recombination, and repair”; and “carbohydrate transport andmetabolism”—genes that are involved with carbon cycling (i.e.,metabolism and cell growth) (Bang-Andreasen et al., 2020).The researchers concluded that increases in pH, bioavailabledissolved organic carbon, and nutrients (induced by thewood ash ammendments) allow copiotrophic groups to thriveat the expense of oligotrophic groups directly followingamendment application.Carbon cycling in soils is also aﬀected by diﬀerences inoxygen availability—which is of particular relevance in paddysoil microbiomes. Kim and Liesack (2015) compared microbiomestructure and functional succession in the oxic and anoxic layersof paddy soils using metatranscriptomics. Their results suggestedthat the taxonomic composition of paddy soil microbiomes isgoverned by the prevailing habitat conditions (such as oxygenavailability); diﬀerences in the composition and succession ofthe microbiome between the two oxygen zones were related tothe diﬀerential expression of transcripts of highly conserved andubiquitous genes essential for metabolic activity in the respectivezones. Fungi and Xanthomonadales appeared to cooperate indecomposing plant materials in the oxic zone, whereas mostFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 5 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 6Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationof the dominant groups in the anoxic zone collaborativelytransformed organic matter. Another study using shotgunsequencing of total extracted RNA from rice paddy soils showedthat anaerobic biodegradation of SOM and methanogenesis werethe predominate C transformations (Masuda et al., 2018). Theyalso provided strong evidence that Anaeromyxobacter plays a keyrole in not only in the C and N cycles, but also in Fe reduction inthe paddy soil environment.Current Metatranscriptomics LimitationsRNA gene transcripts are transient intermediate molecules, andtherefore transcript proﬁles can vary over short periods oftime even in stable conditions. Hence, obtaining RNA genetranscripts that accurately reﬂect a snapshot of the microbialcommunity in highly dynamic environments like agriculturalsoils can be particularly challenging. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA)accounts for the largest proportion of soil RNA (Urich et al.,2008; Turner et al., 2013; Orellana et al., 2018), whereasmRNA represents only a very small fraction ( <5%) of the soiltranscriptome (He et al., 2010). Owing to the low proportionof mRNA in the total soil transcriptome and the interests ofmany studies to investigate speciﬁc soil functions (e.g., carbonand/or nitrogen transformations), enrichment of mRNA priorto downstream analysis is often conducted (He et al., 2010;Carvalhais et al., 2012). Annotation of gene transcripts generallyrequires the use of a metagenome scaﬀold as the identiﬁcationof transcripts beneﬁts from the availability of genome sequencesobtained from pure cultures of microorganisms that are presentin the soil sample (Prosser, 2015). Lastly, interpretation ofmetatranscriptomics data requires a link between a transcriptand the activity of its associated enzyme which necessitatesassumptions regarding transcript and protein stability andturnover. This link may be diﬃcult to make because ofthe dynamic nature of agricultural soils. Soil environmental(temperature and moisture) and physical/chemical propertiesare dynamic at both daily and seasonal time scales becauseﬁeld operations such as plowing, disking, planting, fertilizing,spraying, and harvesting operations all aﬀect soil conditions andmicrobial activity.Similar technical issues that are encountered in metagenomicstudies are associated with metatranscriptomics, with furtherpotential bias introduced during the construction of cDNAlibraries and a requirement for rapid inactivation of samplesto prevent mRNA turnover (Prosser, 2015). The short half-life of RNA molecules requires RNA stabilizing reagents orﬂash-freezing samples at the site using liquid nitrogen. Thiscan lead to signiﬁcant challenges in applying transcriptomicsin ﬁeld-based research where experiments are far fromresearch infrastructure. Commercially available stabilizationprotocols are used as alternatives to the use of liquidnitrogen (e.g., LifeGuard Soil Preservation Solution, Qiagen);however, caution should be noted as stabilization protocolinduced biases have been reported (Tatangelo et al., 2014;McCarthy et al., 2015). Some of the major challenges inextracting RNA from soil include the presence of coextractants(mainly organic acids; Peršoh et al., 2008), RNA adsorptionto soil minerals, low yield of RNA, and the predominanceof rRNA in the total extract (Wang et al., 2012). Althoughthere are bioinformatics tools to speciﬁcally identify mRNAand rRNA sequences, low-expressed mRNA genes may beabsent in the ﬁnal sequence reads due to various biases(e.g., incomplete coverage as primers are database-dependent,preferential ampliﬁcations, and variable eﬃciency due to variedannealing temperature for diﬀerent organisms; Brooks et al.,2015; García-Ortega and Martínez, 2015).SOIL METAPROTEOMICS AND ITSAPPLICATIONS FOR SOIL CARBONSTABILIZATIONMetaproteomics—General Context andCurrent ApplicationsSoil metaproteomics tools are used to study the total proteincontent in a soil sample to provide information on speciﬁcproteins, such as enzymes, that are related to microbialcommunity functionality and are persistent in the environment,unlike RNA which is transient. Metaproteome studies of diﬀerentenvironments all use similar, or closely related, analyticalmethods and instruments (Benndorf et al., 2007; Williams et al.,2010; Wang et al., 2011; Keiblinger et al., 2012; Grob et al.,2015; Hultman et al., 2015; Liu et al., 2017). Prior to proteomicsanalysis, soil-extracted proteins are usually separated by using 1Dor 2D SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Then, separatedgel bands of proteins are digested into smaller peptides andfurther separated using diﬀerent liquid chromatographic systemsand characterized using mass spectrometry (MS). Fine tuningof protein extraction and sample preparation methods, andtechnological advances in mass spectrometers are extremelyrelevant for the advancement of the ﬁeld of soil metaproteomics.Metaproteomics studies have proven essential for providingfundamentally new insights into the role played by microbes insoil biogeochemical processes involving soil carbon stabilization(such as plant residue decomposition), where protein expressionis linked together with microbial origin and temporal distribution(Schneider et al., 2012). Decomposition of plant residues playsan initial and integral step in carbon cycling in agricultural soils.More recalcitrant biopolymers such as lignin, cutin, and suberinpersist in soils as they take longer to degrade, where degradationrequires speciﬁc enzymes produced by unique members of themicrobial population, typically attributed fungi (Kramer et al.,2016; Arcand et al., 2017; Müller et al., 2017). Sidibé et al.(2016) conducted an incubation study and characterized thesoil metaproteome to evaluate whether addition of recalcitrantsuberin to the soil can enrich speciﬁc bacterial members ofsoil microbial communities. Counts of protein spectral featuresindicated a decline in the proportion of fast-growing bacteriaand enrichment of particular bacterial constituents of the soilmicrobial community that can speciﬁcally degrade suberin (assuggested by the observation of putative bacterial lipases andother proteins linked to lipid metabolism), providing newinsight into this fundamental process in carbon-cycling in soils(Sidibé et al., 2016).Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 6 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 7Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationTracing the ﬂow of carbon in soil using stable isotope-labelingof the soil metaproteome helps to link microbial species to aspeciﬁc substrate in situ (Seifert et al., 2012; von Bergen et al.,2013; Grob et al., 2015). Kleiner et al. (2018) developed a directprotein stable isotope ﬁngerprint method that links microbialspecies in communities to the carbon source they consume bydetermining their stable carbon isotope signature. The methodinvolves preparation of peptide mixtures, measuring their stableC and N isotope ratios using 1D or 2D LC-MS/MS, databasesearching of the peptide spectra, and using the spectral scores andraw MS data as inputs to provide single, robust, averaged stable Cand N isotope ratios per species.Soil metaproteomics have also been successfully applied tocharacterize the structure of metabolically-active microorganismsin rhizosphere soils (Wang et al., 2011; Mattarozzi et al.,2017; Bona et al., 2019). The rhizosphere encompasses thesoil environment situated in proximity to root hairs ofgrowing root tips, where plant exudates (carbon inputs) areexchanged with microbial populations, often in exchangefor non-organic nutrients, essential for plant growth andhealth. Wang et al. (2011) detected numerous proteins withpotential functions in energy metabolism, protein turnoverand amino acid biosynthesis, secondary metabolism, nucleotidemetabolism, signal transduction, and resistance mechanismsin crop rhizosphere soils. Although 43% of the proteinswere unknown, about 23% of the remaining proteins werefrom the rhizosphere, and from microorganisms in whichProteobacteria have been identiﬁed as the most predominantin the metaproteomics (44%) and T-RFLP (48%) libraries.Another study by Mattarozzi et al. (2017) successfully appliedsoil metaproteomics to rhizosphere soils obtained from plantsthat were metal-tolerant and metal hyperaccumulators. Theauthors identiﬁed up to 294 unique bacterial proteins using liquidchromatography (LC)-high-resolution MS (HRMS) analysis ofthe soil metaproteome.Current Metaproteomic LimitationsThe unbiased extraction of proteins directly from soil is diﬃcultbecause soil is one of the most complex and heterogeneous of allmicrobial environments. There are numerous methods reportedfor direct protein extraction from the soil, all of which involve:cell lysis, stabilization of proteins (often by using reducingagents), precipitation of proteins, and a subsequent cleanup step(Benndorf et al., 2007; Chourey et al., 2010; Hultman et al.,2015). Major challenges associated with the direct isolation ofproteins from soil include: co-extraction of organic acids (whichimpact the downstream analysis), binding of proteins to metalions, soil particles, and organic matter, denaturation of proteinsby the extraction conditions (e.g., chemicals, temperature, ionicstrength, and pH), the low abundance of some importantproteins, and the heterogeneous nature of the soil matrix(Bastida et al., 2009). Protein recovery is highly dependent onextractant and soil type, suggesting that no single or universalextractant is capable of complete protein recovery. This may limitdirect comparison of studies using diﬀerent recovery methods,especially if no extraction controls are used (Greenﬁeld et al.,2018). Finally, both the high diversity of microorganisms insoil and the interaction of environmental conditions likely playa role in the speciﬁc response of the microbial communityto drivers of microbial functioning, such as land use andmanagement practices.These challenges make characterizing the soil metaproteomea daunting task. A study by Nicora et al. (2013) demonstratedenhanced recovery of proteins from sediment soil samples byblocking protein binding sites in the soil using a mixtureof polar positive amino acids prior to in situ lysis and byenhancing the release of proteins from the soil using an optimizeddesorption buﬀer. As these amino acids may pose interferenceson the MS analysis, the authors optimized the concentrationsto be small enough to avoid detection by the MS. Parallel orsequential extraction of soil proteins from a soil sample usingdiﬀerent extraction methods and combining the spectral datamay improve the detection capability. For instance, Mattarozziet al. (2017) combined protein spectral features obtained fromthree diﬀerent extraction methods, and showed that up to1.5% of the total proteins ( 294 unique proteins) from eachsample could be detected by using the methods. Extractioneﬃciency of proteins may also be improved following separationand isolation of microorganisms from the soil by diﬀerentialcentrifugation; however, in such circumstances, extra-cellularproteins (e.g., polymer-degrading enzymes) in the soil solutionare lost (Chourey et al., 2010).Soil microbial communities are heterogeneous, dominatedin density by a few species, while the remainder of themicrobial diversity are present in low abundances. Decipheringthe presence of specialized functional proteins from complexprotein proﬁles dominated by proteins of ubiquitous function(such as “house-keeping” proteins involved with cellularrespiration, energy metabolism, DNA replication, etc.) istherefore a considerable challenge, especially when producedby low abundance community members (Starke et al., 2019).Further complications arise during the annotation stage, whereprotein identiﬁcation relies upon successful database matching.Multiple protein databases are available; however, these databasesfavor intensively-investigated and well-characterized modelorganisms (i.e., Escherichia coli ,Saccharomyces cerevisiae , andCaenorhabditis elegans ), and therefore annotation of functionalproteins from community members of “unknown” identity isdiﬃcult and tenuous (Starke et al., 2019).SOIL-METABOLOMICSAND ITSAPPLICATIONS FOR SOIL CARBONSTABILIZATIONMetabolomics—General Context andCurrent ApplicationsSoil metabolomics characterizes the composition of smallmetabolites (100–2000 Da range) in the soil (by-products,intermediates, and end products of cellular processes) andprovides information directly on carbon transformation andstabilization as well as the constituents of SOM therein ( Figure 3 ).Untargeted metabolomics (metabolite proﬁling) is a globalFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 7 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 8Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationanalysis that characterizes as much of small molecule chemistryof the SOM as possible, whereas semi-targeted analyses focus ona speciﬁc molecular class or range of classes (e.g., N containingcompounds, or fatty acids). Untargeted metabolite proﬁling isintended to have maximal coverage of chemical space; however,regardless of the extraction method chosen, some moleculeswill be missed because they are present in trace amounts,strongly adsorbed on to mineral surfaces, or because they arenot soluble with the extract used, and/or incompatible with theinstrument methods used for proﬁling. Semi-targeted extractionsare comparably less complex and easier to analyze, but importantcross-class metabolite interactions may be missed. Untargetedmetabolite proﬁling aims to generate hypotheses to explaindiﬀerence in molecular patterns observed, while targeted analysesare often used to test hypotheses as they are more quantitativeand are therefore used to answer questions related to speciﬁcclasses of compounds.There are a number of excellent untargeted analyses ofsmall molecules and SOM composition by biogeochemists andgeologists (Pautler et al., 2013; Pisani et al., 2016; Seifert et al.,2016; Grewer et al., 2018; Li et al., 2018; Wu et al., 2018), inwhich the term “molecular characterization” has been used ratherthan “metabolomics”—as the term “metabolomics” infers smallmolecules associated with metabolic processes. This discrepancyin semantics is an important consideration, in that, the soilenvironment is complex and SOM chemistry is a reﬂection ofboth biotic and abiotic eﬀects upon small organic molecules,wherein not all small molecules in SOM are directly derivedfrom metabolism.Metabolomics has been successfully applied in severalexperimental models to characterize the molecular compositionof SOM. Clemente et al. (2013) compared the composition ofSOM after incubation with diﬀerent parts of the maize plant.They found that after 36 weeks of incubation, soil amendedwith maize roots had the greatest microbial SOM contribution,compared to soil amended with stems or leaves. This is consistentwith other studies showing that the “quality” of plant inputsaﬀects the soil microbial community. Rochfort et al. (2015)used nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy-basedsoil metabolomics and compared metabolite proﬁles in soilsunder diﬀerent land use and found that lipid- and sugar-related metabolites were distinctly abundant in an agriculturalsoil, whereas soil from a remnant site was dominated byterpene metabolites. The abundance of easily degradable carbonsubstrates in the agricultural soils may be related to the largerinputs of organic carbon. Pisani et al. (2015) assessed the SOMcomposition across a large temperature gradient with changesin land use. Using NMR, they were able to determine thatsoil cultivation resulted in increased microbial contributionsat higher temperatures, had lower plant contributions, andincreased suberin and lignin degradation. They concluded thatland-use changes associated with cultivation may become sourcesof atmospheric CO 2.Untargeted SOM analyses have attempted to link togetherSOM compositional knowledge with microbial analyses toinvestigate SOM stabilization. The terms “soil dissolved organicmatter” (DOM), “water extractable organic matter” (WEOM), or“water extractable organic carbon” (WEOC) are commonly usedto describe water extracts from soil. Linked soil metabolomics hasbeen used in a few instances to determine soil metabolite proﬁlesduring wetting/drying (Swenson et al., 2018), in ecologicalassessments (Beale et al., 2017, 2018), to study permafrostcarbon storage (Ward and Cory, 2015), with soil amendments(Mitchell et al., 2015), and for developing improved growthmedia for the soil microbiome (Jenkins et al., 2017). Somestudies link to microbial activity more generally. Jenkins et al.(2017) used LC-MS and gas chromatography (GC)-MS toidentify 96 metabolites in soils and quantify 25 of them, whichshowed that the latter metabolites were unevenly distributed.This allowed them to formulate two soil deﬁned media, onecontaining 23 metabolites and another containing 46 metabolites;medium formulations that were focused on the cultivationof previously uncultured microorganisms. Ward and Cory(2015) demonstrated linking soil DOM to characterize bacterialgrowth and activity parameters such as microbial respiration,production, and growth eﬃciency. Warren (2014) proposeda method using LC-MS to target fatty acids as indicators ofmicrobial activities, to infer speciﬁc microbial contributions tothe formation of SOM. Similarly, Mitchell et al. (2015) useduntargeted NMR paired with a targeted analysis of phospholipidfatty acids (PLFAs) to link the eﬀects of biochar amendmentto impacts on the soil microbial community and the WEOMfraction of SOM. This technique paired with untargeted NMRof the DOM suggested that the microbial community shiftedfrom fungal- to more bacterial-dominated and from Gram-negative bacteria to more Gram-positive bacteria within 16 weeksafter biochar amendment. In the WEOM, they also observedincreased concentrations of short-chain carboxylic acids butdecreased carbohydrates and peptides and concluded thatbiochar amendments increased soil microbial activity and thusCO 2emissions.Current Metabolomics LimitationsSelection of an appropriate extraction system is critical forunbiased characterization of soil metabolites. The diverse natureof chemical constituents within soil limits the use of a singlesolvent to extract and obtain all available molecules. Thus,global-untargeted studies require parallel or sequential extractiontechniques (using diﬀerent extractants) on a single soil sample(Tfaily et al., 2015, 2017), and to combine data obtainedfrom diﬀerent analytical tools (Jenkins et al., 2017). Swensonet al. (2015) proﬁled metabolites using diﬀerent solvents anddemonstrated that water ranked as the best extractant for soilexometabolites because no signiﬁcant diﬀerences were observedwhen compared with other extractants which included methanol,K2SO4, and NH 4HCO 3. By using water as an extractant, potentialartifacts created by the other chemical extractants may be avoided(Sauerschnig et al., 2017), but non-polar metabolites such aslipophilic molecules (that are also important components of SOMstabilization) are excluded. Chloroform fumigation is commonlyused to lyze cells prior to extraction in order to increase both thediversity and abundance of extractable soil metabolites (with aparticular bias toward nucleosides, nucleotides, and amino acids;Warren, 2014); however, chloroform fumigation does not inhibitFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 8 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 9Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationFIGURE 3 | Application of untargeted or semi-targeted metabolomics analysis of SOM provides insight into physiochemical and biological drivers of SOMstabilization and mineralization. Untargeted metabolite proﬁling is intended to have maximal coverage of chemical space; whereas semi-targeted analyses focus on aspeciﬁc molecular class or range of classes (e.g., N containing compounds, or fatty acids). During data processing (i.e., of an LC-MS dataset), mass spectralchromatograms [three-dimensional data: retention time, m/zrange (50–2000 Da), relative signal abundance] are converted into two-dimensional data matricesthrough data preprocessing software, followed by multivariate and univariate statistical analysis (unsupervised, supervised, and molecular ﬁngerprinting methods).all exoenzyme activity, and care should be taken following celllysis during sample processing as active enzymatic degradationof organic matter can continue for the duration of the extractionprocess (Blankinship et al., 2014).Metabolites of various sources are usually a mixture ofdiﬀerent molecular compounds of varying abundance andchemical properties (e.g., carbohydrates, amino acids, peptides,lipids, nucleic acids, and organic acids). Diﬀerent analytical toolsare available for the identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of soilmetabolites (Zhang et al., 2012; Alonso et al., 2015); however,NMR and MS are the most commonly used. Both tools haveadvantages and drawbacks. NMR provides direct relationshipsFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 9 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 10Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationto the amount of each molecular constituent in a mixtureand yields interpretable information on molecular structures;while MS provides information about the mass and charge ofindividual molecules. NMR is considerably less sensitive thanMS and therefore, MS is more suited for the detection oflow-abundance metabolites (Zhang et al., 2012). Annotation ofthe individual constituents of an extract is diﬃcult and oftenrequires some degree of chromatographic separation prior todetection for proper annotation. However, regardless of themethod used, separation comes at a cost, as only metabolitesthat are soluble in solvent systems used for injection andelution (in LC) and derivatization and thermostability (in GC)are observed, introducing a bias or complexity reduction ofmetabolic coverage in global-untargeted metabolomics analyses.In such a case, multiple chromatographic systems or technologieswill often be used to proﬁle soil extracts to maximize molecularcoverage (i.e., GC-MS and LC-MS proﬁling, or reverse phaseand HILIC chromatography). In addition, we have found thathigh salt contents naturally present in soil or from SOMextraction procedures can damage sensitive chromatography andMS instrumentation and also increases the complexity of theresulting spectra via adduct formation.Metabolites in soils are highly dynamic and vary widelyspatially and temporally. They are produced as a result ofchanges substrate (e.g., amendments to soil), temperature,and moisture. Therefore, proper study design (e.g., with asuﬃcient number of biological replicates and including controlexperiments and method blanks), and well-planned samplingand sample preparation are critical for untargeted SOM studies.Sample collection and storage duration inﬂuence the results as thepassage of time can shift the quantity and quality of metabolitesavailable in the soil of improperly stored samples. Thus, unbiasedcharacterization of metabolites at a speciﬁc time of the studyrequires an immediate quenching of the microbial/enzymaticactivity in the soil samples, and reduced exposure to light andoxygen. The easiest method of quenching microbial metabolismis using liquid nitrogen and ﬂash freezing the soil; this isparticularly important when samples need to be transported froma study site to the lab. If the soil samples are collected from alab study, it may be possible to immediately store in a  80Cfreezer or ﬂash freeze with liquid N 2prior to  80C storage.Ideally, the extractions are also performed at low temperaturesto slow enzymatic reactions or else microbes and exoezymes willcontinue to modify the native SOM leading to methodological-derived biases in the results.LINKING OMICS TECHNOLOGIES—FORSOIL CARBON STABILIZATIONTo develop a deeper understanding of the process of carbonstabilization in soil, the connections between the compositionof the microbial community and its functional response to theenvironment (e.g., resources available) need to be characterized.But redundancies in the functional response by diﬀerentmembers of the microbial community increase the complexityof any assessment of this process. Many common microbialenzymes and metabolites involved in carbon cycling in soils areproduced from ubiquitous gene clusters, all playing speciﬁc rolesas inputs/outputs from one type of microbe are actively used by adiﬀerent group of the soil microbial community.Current “omics” approaches have successfully modeledvarious aspects of these processes; however, using a single“omics” tool only allows for a single perspective of thisheterogeneous environment, generating a partial, or fragmented,representation of a complex network of interactions. Butcombining observations from multiple “omics” platforms linksthe genetic potential and community structure to functionalrelationships with gene, protein, and metabolite, therebyproviding a more holistic vision of soil “metaphenomics”(Jansson and Hofmockel, 2018) ( Figure 4 ). For example,a multi-omics approach could involve targeted 16S rRNAgene sequencing to determine the microbial communitycomposition; total metagenomic DNA sequencing to determinethe complement of phylogenetic and functional genes; totalmetatranscriptome RNA sequencing to determine which geneswere expressed; and untargeted MS-based metaproteomics todetermine which proteins were produced (Hultman et al., 2015).This type of approach could help to identify the dominantheterotrophic pathways for carbon metabolism and examine howmicrobial physiology inﬂuences the relative importance of carboncycling pathways in response to environmental conditions.There are a few examples of research to link soil “omics”techniques in the scientiﬁc literature. Recently, Beale et al. (2017,2018) combined untargeted GC-MS metabolomics with bacterialmetagenomics. Beale et al. (2018) characterized metaboliteproﬁles and microbial community structure in sediments duringdry and wet seasonal conditions to account for biologicaland physicochemical variance due to non-rainfall-based abioticstresses. The authors identiﬁed signiﬁcant metabolic features(e.g., 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, beta-alanine, L-allothreonine,and numerous unknown metabolites) that increase (2.2- to 13.2-fold) during the dry season that were linked with a transition inbacterial community composition toward organisms that utilizemore complex organic energy sources, such as carbohydrates andfatty acids, and anaerobic redox processes (Beale et al., 2018).Swenson et al. (2018) also combined metagenomics with GC-MS metabolomics to provide a high-resolution assessment ofthe soil microbial community. They used biocrusts as a modelsystem to demonstrate the feasibility of integrating metagenomicswith soil metabolomics to hypothesize food webs that developafter wetting dry soils. They also discussed building databasesthat can contribute to more sophisticated models for carbon ﬂuxpredictions. Such models would be invaluable for future dataminers and modelers interested in climate change or modelingstate changes in agricultural soils following a change in croppinghistory or soil management practices.A good example of a metabolomics approach to characterizechanges in SOM chemistry in terms of major functionalclasses of metabolites was conducted by Kallenbach et al.(2016). They added a soil-derived microbial seed inoculumto diﬀerent sterile, mineral soils (kaolinite or montmorilloniteclay mixed with quartz sand—containing little to no SOM).Each mineral soil was amended weekly with additions ofFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 10 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 11Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationFIGURE 4 | Linking data resulting from parallel analysis of soil samples using various “omics” platforms (metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, metaproteomics, andmetabolomics) provides a more holistic view (metaphenomics) of microbial community composition and understanding of functional interactions associated withbiogeochemical processes involved in SOM stabilization.diﬀerent C-substrate inputs over a 15-month period and thenleft without additions for another 3 months. Temporal changesin microbial population composition were characterized usingPLFA biomarkers, and proxy measurements of C use eﬃciencywere made to estimate microbial residue production. Overthe 18-month period, convergence in SOM chemistry (and inturn SOM stabilization) was observed regardless of C-input orclay/soil type as a direct result of microbial activity, biomassaccumulation, and stabilization into microbial necromass. Usingthis approach as a model and expanding it to include other“omics” platforms will provide relevant functional informationin terms of which particular transformative processes wereinitiated and when (i.e., metatranscriptomics), what enzymaticreactions were occurring (i.e., metaproteomics), and howmicrobial population dynamics (i.e., metagenomics) ﬂuctuateover time to cause a convergence in SOM chemistry between thediﬀerent soils.Each of the diﬀerent “omics” platforms discussed in thisreview has been successfully applied to model various aspectsof soil C stabilization; however, harmonization of each platformtoward a common understanding remains challenging. Goingforward, soil microbial metagenomics needs to move beyondsimple descriptions of community diversity (Fierer, 2017) tocharacterize and evaluate important soil processes (such as Ccycling). Community metabolic function is strongly inﬂuencedby nutritional, energetic, and stoichiometric constraints, whiletaxonomic variation within these communities is only poorlyexplained by environmental conditions (Raes et al., 2011; Loucaet al., 2016; Nelson et al., 2016). Linking “omics” experimentsthrough genome-centric metagenomics and metatranscriptomicswill provide insight into the metabolic basis and mechanism forphylotype involvement (Prosser, 2015); however, considerationof temporal dynamics when setting up an experiment of merged“omics” studies is imperative to link gene cluster potential withtranscript abundance and metabolic activity.When designing a set of linked “omics” experiments (andmore importantly, when interpreting data derived from thoseexperiments), several caveats of each “omics” approach needto be considered. First, ampliﬁcation of environmental DNAis indiscriminate and can represent dead, dormant, or relicmembers of the microbial community (Levy-Booth et al., 2007;Carini et al., 2016; Lennon et al., 2018), potentially skewingFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 11 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 12Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationinterpretations of the relative abundance of diﬀerent taxa.Second, RNA transcripts are transient and rapidly degradefollowing transcription making them less subject to similarbias; however, due to their short temporal nature, coordinationwith metaproteomic and metabolomics experiments is essential.Changes in cellular metabolism and exoenzymatic degradationof SOM can only be detected after transcription of theirassociated proteins has occurred and metabolite products haveaccumulated, decoupling SOM breakdown from populationestimates based on nucleic acid analysis. Without knowledgeof the temporal dynamics, erroneous assumptions can bemade regarding community structure (genomic predictionsof functional potential) and the expression of a functionalresponse. Experiments that account for temporal changeby repeated sampling over time will elucidate trends ingene transcription, translation, and metabolite ﬂuxes. Hence,conducting experiments at an appropriate time scale will providedeeper insight into the associations of genome potential andthe functional expression of a microbial population. As abioticsoil properties are a major driver of soil microbiomes, aminimum dataset is also required, which needs to be analyzedand implemented independently from the research question(s).A basic suite of these should consist of soil texture, pH, andorganic C and N. Appropriate contextual information is criticalto interpret most omics information. For example, at agriculturalsites, current and past management practices should be listed.These include time of fertilization, tillage, harvest, as wellas crop growth and yield, crop sequence, and biomass. Forunmanaged sites, the land use and/or vegetation type shouldbe characterized.SOIL SAMPLING CONSIDERATIONS FORLINKED “OMICS”Soils vary laterally across the landscape and vertically throughthe proﬁle and therefore comprise diverse microhabitats, evenat ﬁne (cm) scales (O’Brien et al., 2016). The degree ofheterogeneity strongly depends on: (i) texture, which inﬂuencesextraction eﬃciency; (ii) soil structure and related properties (e.g.,aggregation and drainage); (iii) vegetation type and proximityto growing plants (e.g., the rhizosphere); (iv) season; and(v) speciﬁc site characteristics such as topographic location(slope and depressions) and groundwater table. Taking thisheterogeneity into account, the typical 0.5–2 g soil sampleused for an “omics” extraction does not reﬂect a singlemicrosite, but a mixture of diﬀerent microhabitats withdiﬀerent chemical, physical, and biological properties. Theeﬀects of spatial heterogeneity can be reduced by increasingthe amount of soil and number of samples used for anextraction. For example, regarding DNA extraction from soil,Penton et al. (2016) observed that sample size signiﬁcantlyaﬀected overall bacterial and fungal community structure,and the number of operational taxonomic units retrieved.They found that recovery of bacterial and fungal diversityimproved substantially as the mass of soil samples increasedfrom 0.25 to 10 g.The inherent heterogeneity of soil is a primary drivingfactor when developing a sampling strategy for a soil “omics”experiment. A preliminary assessment of the spatial variationof soil properties is a prime requisite for developing a soundsoil sampling strategy. In agricultural soils, where factors suchas tillage practices and application of chemical and organicfertilizers inﬂuence the distribution of resources with depth inthe proﬁle, the vertical heterogeneity may be of interest andmust be accounted for Sun et al. (2018). In this case, thesampling strategy should consider the depth of plowing as wellas the stratiﬁcation of horizons with varying depths, to avoidthe mixing of diﬀerent soil horizons. One soil sample takenfrom a given site is an inadequate representation; therefore,true soil sample replicates (multiple individual samples taken,rather than a single sample split into “replicates”) need to becollected and analyzed. Moreover, to limit the inﬂuence of soilheterogeneity within a given sample, a representative samplingstrategy, involving the harvesting and subsequent pooling ofsubsamples, should be used.Overlaid on these spatial factors are temporal factors thatneed to be taken into account because soil microhabitats andorganisms therein change in response to management practiceslike fertilization, tillage, harvesting, plant growth stage, weather,and season. Likewise, the stabilization and accumulation ofproteins and metabolites are strongly inﬂuenced by the localconditions prior to sampling. Therefore, sampling at one time is abrief “snapshot” of nucleic acids, proteins, and metabolites, eachof which change at a diﬀerent rate. Monitoring and evaluatingantecedent local conditions (e.g., soil temperature and watercontent) is therefore necessary to correctly interpret omicsdata. Hence, a snapshot of metagenomic data will also requireevaluation of temperature and moisture conditions over a periodof days, weeks, or months. The issue of spatial and temporalheterogeneity is more pronounced when analyzing RNA becausethe stability of mRNA in cells is often in the order of minutesto hours. Thus, one sampling gives only a brief glimpse ofthe microbial community, one that depends very much on theenvironmental conditions at the time of sampling. By takingaccount of the strong spatial and temporal dynamics of soilmicrobial communities, a sound sampling strategy needs to bedriven by a clear research hypothesis.CONCLUSION AND FUTUREPERSPECTIVE“Omics” technologies encompass a broad suite of techniquesthat are currently being applied to diverse scientiﬁc ﬁeldsto understand complex environmental processes. Thesetechnologies provide opportunities to advance our understandingof how and which microorganisms transform SOM inputs intostable compounds that enhance soil health and productivity.The real potential of applying “omics” in this area of soil sciencewill be realized by linking “omics” technologies together inwell-designed experiments (taking spatial/temporal changes intoconsideration) to generate relevant and testable hypotheses.Integration of linked “omics” approaches with traditionalFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 12 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 13Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationmethods used in soil science is relatively recent but willbecome more prevalent in the near future. Modern technologicaladvances are constantly occurring in all ﬁelds of “omics.” Withincreased sequencing depth and decreasing costs, sequencingof environmental DNA and RNA is making the assembly of“population genomes” feasible. Application of high-resolutionmass spectrometers in environmental studies is providing greateraccuracy and resolution for peak deconvolution and annotationin metabolomics and proteomic studies. These technologicaladvances aid to provide greater resolution and insight intomicrobial populations and how these populations change andinteract with their environment. “Omics” platforms are multi-disciplinary and require expensive technological infrastructure.Often a single lab is not able to integrate more than one “omics”tool from their toolbox; therefore, more collaboration will likelybe required to achieve a linked “omics” approach (e.g., soilmetaphenomics approach ) to studying C-dynamics/stabilizationin soil, as well as in other areas of environmental sciences.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSDO: conceptualization, writing—original draft, writing—reviewand editing, supervision, and funding acquisition. MB: writing—original draft, writing—review and editing, and visualizations.JH: writing—original draft and writing—review and editing. BH:writing—review and editing. EG: conceptualization, supervision,writing—original draft, writing—review and editing, and fundingacquisition. All authors contributed to the article and approvedthe submitted version.FUNDINGThis work was supported by the Canadian AgriculturalPartnership—Agrilnnovate Program from Agriculture andAgriFood Canada (Project ID# J-001756: “Understandingmechanisms in the biological stabilization of carbon in soil”).REFERENCESAlonso, A., Marsal, S., and JuliÃ, A. (2015). Analytical methods in untargetedmetabolomics: state of the art in 2015. Front. Bioeng. Biotechnol. 3:23.Amir, A., McDonald, D., Navas-Molina, J. A., Kopylova, E., Morton, J. T., Zech,et al. (2017). Deblur rapidly resolves single-nucleotide community sequencepatterns. mSystems 2:e000191-16.Amundson, R., Berhe, A. A., Hopmans, J. W., Olson, C., Sztein, A. E., and Sparks,D. L. (2015). Soil and human security in the 21st century. Science 348:1261071.Arcand, M. M., Levy-Booth, D. J., and Helgason, B. L. (2017). Resource legacies oforganic and conventional management diﬀerentiate soil microbial carbon use.Front. Microbiol. 8:2293.Bahram, M., Hildebrand, F., Forslund, S. K., Anderson, J. L., Soudzilovskaia, N. A.,Bodegom, P. M., et al. (2018). Structure and function of the global topsoilmicrobiome. Nature 560, 233–237. doi: 10.1038/s41586-018-0386-6Banerjee, S., Kirkby, C. A., Schmutter, D., Bissett, A., Kirkegaard, J. A., andRichardson, A. E. (2016). Network analysis reveals functional redundancy andkeystone taxa amongst bacterial and fungal communities during organic matterdecomposition in an arable soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 97, 188–198. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.03.017Bang-Andreasen, T., Zohaib Anwar, M., Lanzén, A., Kjøller, R., Rønn, R., Ekelund,F., et al. (2020). Total RNA sequencing reveals multilevel microbial communitychanges and functional responses to wood ash application in agricultural andforest soil. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 96:ﬁaa016.Bastida, F., Moreno, J. L., Nicolás, C., Hernández, T., and García, C. (2009). Soilmetaproteomics: a review of an emerging environmental science. signiﬁcance,methodology and perspectives. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 60, 845–859. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2389.2009.01184.xBeale, D. J., Crosswell, J., Karpe, A. V., Ahmed, W., Williams, M., Morrison,P. D., et al. (2017). A multi-omics based ecological analysis of coastal marinesediments from Gladstone, in Australia’s Central Queensland, and HeronIsland, a nearby fringing platform reef. Sci. Total Environ. 609, 842–853. doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2017.07.184Beale, D. J., Crosswell, J., Karpe, A. V., Metcalfe, S. S., Morrison, P. D., Staley, C.,et al. (2018). Seasonal metabolic analysis of marine sediments collected fromMoreton Bay in South East Queensland, Australia, using a multi-omics-basedapproach. Sci. Total Environ. 631-632, 1328–1341. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.03.106Benndorf, D., Balcke, G. U., Harms, H., and von Bergen, M. (2007). Functionalmetaproteome analysis of protein extracts from contaminated soil andgroundwater. ISME J. 1, 224–234. doi: 10.1038/ismej.2007.39Bergmann, G. T., Bates, S. T., Eilers, K. G., Lauber, C. L., Caporaso, J. G., Walters,W. A., et al. (2011). The under-recognized dominance of verrucomicrobia insoil bacterial communities. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 1450–1455. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.03.012Blagodatskaya, E., and Kuzyakov, Y. (2013). Active microorganisms in soil: criticalreview of estimation criteria and approaches. Soil Biol. Biochem. 67, 192–211.doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.08.024Blankinship, J. C., Becerra, C. A., Schaeﬀer, S. M., and Schimel, J. P. (2014).Separating cellular metabolism from exoenzyme activity in soil organic matterdecomposition. Soil Biol. Biochem. 71, 68–75. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.01.010Bona, E., Massa, N., Novello, G., Boatti, L., Cesaro, P., Todeschini, V., et al. (2019).Metaproteomic characterization of Vitis vinifera rhizosphere. FEMS Microbiol.Ecol. 95:ﬁy204. doi: 10.1093/femsec/ﬁy204Brooks, J. P., Edwards, D. J., Harwich, M. D., Rivera, M. C., Fettweis,J. M., Serrano, M. G., et al. (2015). The truth about metagenomics:quantifying and counteracting bias in 16S rRNA studies. BMC Microbiol.15:66.Cadotte, M. W., Cavender-Bares, J., Tilman, D., and Oakley, T. H. (2009). Usingphylogenetic, functional and trait diversity to understand patterns of plantcommunity productivity. PLoS One 4:e0005695.Callahan, B. J., McMurdie, P. J., Rosen, M. J., Han, A. W., Johnson, A. J. A.,and Holmes, S. P. (2016). DADA2: high-resolution sample inference fromIllumina amplicon data. Nat. Methods 13, 581–583. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.3869Caporaso, J. G., Kuczynski, J., Stombaugh, J., Bittinger, K., Bushman, F. D.,Costello, E. K., et al. (2010). QIIME allows analysis of high-throughputcommunity sequencing data. Nat. Methods 7, 335–336.Carbonetto, B., Rascovan, N., Álvarez, R., Mentaberry, A., and Vázquez, M. P.(2014). Structure, composition and metagenomic proﬁle of soil microbiomesassociated to agricultural land use and tillage systems in Argentine Pampas.PLoS One 9:e99949. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099949Carini, P., Marsden, P. J., Leﬀ, J. W., Morgan, E. E., Strickland, M. S., and Fierer, N.(2016). Relic DNA is abundant in soil and obscures estimates of soil microbialdiversity. Nat. Microbiol. 2:16242.Carvalhais, L. C., Dennis, P. G., Tyson, G. W., and Schenk, P. M. (2012).Application of metatranscriptomics to soil environments. J. Microbiol. Methods91, 246–251. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2012.08.011Chourey, K., Jansson, J., VerBerkmoes, N., Shah, M., Chavarria, K. L., Tom,L. M., et al. (2010). Direct cellular lysis/protein extraction protocol forsoil metaproteomics. J. Proteome Res. 9, 6615–6622. doi: 10.1021/pr100787qClemente, J. S., Simpson, M. J., Simpson, A. J., Y anni, S. F., and Whalen, J. K.(2013). Comparison of soil organic matter composition after incubation withmaize leaves, roots, and stems. Geoderma 192, 86–96. doi: 10.1016/j.geoderma.2012.08.007Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 13 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 14Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationCline, L. C., and Zak, D. R. (2015). Soil microbial communities are shaped by plant-driven changes in resource availability during secondary succession. Ecology 96,3374–3385. doi: 10.1890/15-0184.1Fierer, N. (2017). Embracing the unknown: disentangling the complexities ofthe soil microbiome. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 15, 579–590. doi: 10.1038/nrmicro.2017.87García-Ortega, L. F., and Martínez, O. (2015). How many genes are expressed ina transcriptome? estimation and results for RNA-Seq. PLoS One 10:e0130262.doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0130262Gloor, G. B., Macklaim, J. M., Pawlowsky-Glahn, V., and Egozcue, J. J. (2017).Microbiome datasets are compositional: and this is not optional. Front.Microbiol. 8:2224.Greenﬁeld, L. M., Hill, P. W., Paterson, E., Baggs, E. M., and Jones, D. L. (2018).Methodological bias associated with soluble protein recovery from soil. Sci. Rep.8:11186.Grewer, D. M., Lafrenière, M. J., Lamoureux, S. F., and Simpson, M. J. (2018).Spatial and temporal shifts in ﬂuvial sedimentary organic matter compositionfrom a high Arctic watershed impacted by localized slope disturbances. Org.Geochem. 123, 113–125. doi: 10.1016/j.orggeochem.2018.07.004Grob, C., Taubert, M., Howat, A. M., Burns, O. J., Dixon, J. L., Richnow, H. H.,et al. (2015). Combining metagenomics with metaproteomics and stable isotopeprobing reveals metabolic pathways used by a naturally occurring marinemethylotroph: metagenomics, metaproteomics and methylotrophy. Environ.Microbiol. 17, 4007–4018. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.12935Haberl, H., Erb, K.-H., and Krausmann, F. (2014). Human appropriation of netprimary production: patterns, trends, and planetary boundaries. Annu. Rev.Environ. Resour. 39, 363–391. doi: 10.1146/annurev-environ-121912-094620Handa, I. T., Aerts, R., Berendse, F., Berg, M. P., Bruder, A., Butenschoen, O.,et al. (2014). Consequences of biodiversity loss for litter decomposition acrossbiomes. Nature 509, 218–221. doi: 10.1038/nature13247He, S., Wurtzel, O., Singh, K., Froula, J. L., Yilmaz, S., Tringe, S. G., et al.(2010). Validation of two ribosomal RNA removal methods for microbialmetatranscriptomics. Nat. Methods 7, 807–812. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.1507Howe, A., Y ang, F., Williams, R. J., Meyer, F., and Hofmockel, K. S. (2016).Identiﬁcation of the core set of carbon-associated genes in a bioenergy grasslandsoil.PLoS One 11:e0166578. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0166578Hultman, J., Waldrop, M. P., Mackelprang, R., David, M. M., McFarland, J.,Blazewicz, S. J., et al. (2015). Multi-omics of permafrost, active layer andthermokarst bog soil microbiomes. Nature 521, 208–212. doi: 10.1038/nature14238Huson, D. H., Auch, A. F., Qi, J., and Schuster, S. C. (2007). MEGAN analysis ofmetagenomic data. Genome Res. 17, 377–386. doi: 10.1101/gr.5969107Jansson, J. K., and Hofmockel, K. S. (2018). The soil microbiome — frommetagenomics to metaphenomics. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 43, 162–168. doi:10.1016/j.mib.2018.01.013Janzen, H. H. (2015). Beyond carbon sequestration: soil as conduit of solar energy:soil carbon and energy. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 66, 19–32.Jenkins, S., Swenson, T. L., Lau, R., Rocha, A., Aaring, A., Hazen, T. C.,et al. (2017). Construction of soil deﬁned media using quantitativeexometabolomic analysis of soil metabolites. bioRxiv [preprint] doi: 10.1101/151282Kallenbach, C. M., Frey, S. D., and Grandy, A. S. (2016). Direct evidencefor microbial-derived soil organic matter formation and its ecophysiologicalcontrols. Nat. Commun. 7:13630.Keiblinger, K. M., Wilhartitz, I. C., Schneider, T., Roschitzki, B., Schmid, E., Eberl,L., et al. (2012). Soil metaproteomics – Comparative evaluation of proteinextraction protocols. Soil Biol. Biochem. 54, 14–24. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.05.014Kim, Y., and Liesack, W. (2015). Diﬀerential assemblage of functional units inpaddy soil microbiomes. PLoS One 10:e0122221. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0122221Kindler, R., Miltner, A., Richnow, H., and Kastner, M. (2006). Fate of gram-negativebacterial biomass in soil—mineralization and contribution to SOM. Soil Biol.Biochem. 38, 2860–2870. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2006.04.047Kleiner, M., Dong, X., Hinzke, T., Wippler, J., Thorson, E., Mayer, B., et al.(2018). Metaproteomics method to determine carbon sources and assimilationpathways of species in microbial communities. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A.115, E5576–E5584.Kramer, S., Dibbern, D., Moll, J., Huenninghaus, M., Koller, R., Krueger, D.,et al. (2016). Resource partitioning between bacteria, fungi, and protists in thedetritusphere of an agricultural Soil. Front. Microbiol. 7:1524.Lehmann, J., and Kleber, M. (2015). The contentious nature of soil organic matter.Nature 528, 60–68. doi: 10.1038/nature16069Lennon, J. T., Muscarella, M. E., Placella, S. A., and Lehmkuhl, B. K. (2018). How,when, and where relic DNA aﬀects microbial diversity. mBio 9:e000637-18.Levy-Booth, D. J., Campbell, R. G., Gulden, R. H., Hart, M. M., Powell, J. R.,Klironomos, J. N., et al. (2007). Cycling of extracellular DNA in the soilenvironment. Soil Biol. Biochem. 39, 2977–2991. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.06.020Li, H.-Y., Wang, H., Wang, H.-T., Xin, P.-Y., Xu, X.-H., Ma, Y., et al. (2018). Thechemodiversity of paddy soil dissolved organic matter correlates with microbialcommunity at continental scales. Microbiome 6:187.Liang, C., Schimel, J. P., and Jastrow, J. D. (2017). The importance of anabolism inmicrobial control over soil carbon storage. Nat. Microbiol. 2:17105.Lin, H. (2014). A new worldview of soils. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 78, 1831–1844.doi: 10.2136/sssaj2014.04.0162Liu, D., Keiblinger, K. M., Schindlbacher, A., Wegner, U., Sun, H., Fuchs, S.,et al. (2017). Microbial functionality as aﬀected by experimental warming ofa temperate mountain forest soil—a metaproteomics survey. Appl. Soil Ecol.117-118, 196–202. doi: 10.1016/j.apsoil.2017.04.021Louca, S., Jacques, S. M. S., Pires, A. P. F., Leal, J. S., Srivastava, D. S., Parfrey, L. W.,et al. (2016). High taxonomic variability despite stable functional structureacross microbial communities. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 1:0015.Masuda, Y., Itoh, H., Shiratori, Y., and Senoo, K. (2018). Metatranscriptomicinsights into microbial consortia driving methane metabolism in paddy soils.Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 64, 455–464. doi: 10.1080/00380768.2018.1457409Mattarozzi, M., Manfredi, M., Montanini, B., Gosetti, F., Sanangelantoni, A. M.,Marengo, E., et al. (2017). A metaproteomic approach dissecting major bacterialfunctions in the rhizosphere of plants living in serpentine soil. Anal. Bioanal.Chem. 409, 2327–2339. doi: 10.1007/s00216-016-0175-8McCarthy, A., Chiang, E., Schmidt, M. L., and Denef, V. J. (2015). RNApreservation agents and nucleic acid extraction method bias perceived bacterialcommunity composition. PLoS One 10:e0121659. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121659Mitchell, P. J., Simpson, A. J., Soong, R., and Simpson, M. J. (2015). Shifts inmicrobial community and water-extractable organic matter composition withbiochar amendment in a temperate forest soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 81, 244–254.doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.11.017Müller, K., Marhan, S., Kandeler, E., and Poll, C. (2017). Carbon ﬂow from litterthrough soil microorganisms: from incorporation rates to mean residence timesin bacteria and fungi. Soil Biol. Biochem. 115, 187–196. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.08.017Nelson, M. B., Martiny, A. C., and Martiny, J. B. H. (2016). Global biogeography ofmicrobial nitrogen-cycling traits in soil. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 113, 8033–8040.doi: 10.1073/pnas.1601070113Nesme, J., Achouak, W., Agathos, S. N., Bailey, M., Baldrian, P., Brunel, D., et al.(2016). Back to the future of soil metagenomics. Front. Microbiol. 7:73.Nicora, C. D., Anderson, B. J., Callister, S. J., Norbeck, A. D., Purvine, S. O., Jansson,J. K., et al. (2013). Amino acid treatment enhances protein recovery fromsediment and soils for metaproteomic studies. Proteomics 18-19, 2776–2785.doi: 10.1002/pmic.201300003Nivelle, E., Verzeaux, J., Habbib, H., Kuzyakov, Y., Decocq, G., Roger, D., et al.(2016). Functional response of soil microbial communities to tillage, covercrops and nitrogen fertilization. Appl. Soil Ecol. 108, 147–155. doi: 10.1016/j.apsoil.2016.08.004O’Brien, S. L., Gibbons, S. M., Owens, S. M., Hampton-Marcell, J., Johnston, E. R.,Jastrow, J. D., et al. (2016). Spatial scale drives patterns in soil bacterial diversity.Environ. Microbiol. 18, 2039–2051. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.13231Orellana, L. H., Chee-Sanford, J. C., Sanford, R. A., Löﬄer, F. E., andKonstantinidis, K. T. (2018). Year-round shotgun metagenomes reveal stablemicrobial communities in agricultural soils and novel ammonia oxidizersresponding to fertilization. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 84:e001646-17.Pautler, B. G., Sanborn, P. T., Simpson, A. J., and Simpson, M. J. (2013).Molecular characterization of organic matter in Canadian Arctic paleosolsfor paleoecological applications. Org. Geochem. 63, 122–138. doi: 10.1016/j.orggeochem.2013.08.009Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 14 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 15Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon StabilizationPelletier, N., Audsley, E., Brodt, S., Garnett, T., Henriksson, P., Kendall, A., et al.(2011). Energy intensity of agriculture and food systems. Annu. Rev. Environ.Resour. 36, 223–246.Penton, C. R., Gupta, V. V. S. R., Yu, J., and Tiedje, J. M. (2016). Size matters:assessing optimum soil sample size for fungal and bacterial communitystructure analyses using high throughput sequencing of rRNA gene amplicons.Front. Microbiol. 7:824.Peršoh, D., Theuerl, S., Buscot, F., and Rambold, G. (2008). Towards a universallyadaptable method for quantitative extraction of high-purity nucleic acidsfrom soil. J. Microbiol. Methods 75, 19–24. doi: 10.1016/j.mimet.2008.04.009Pisani, O., Frey, S. D., Simpson, A. J., and Simpson, M. J. (2015). Soil warming andnitrogen deposition alter soil organic matter composition at the molecular-level.Biogeochemistry 123, 391–409. doi: 10.1007/s10533-015-0073-8Pisani, O., Haddix, M. L., Conant, R. T., Paul, E. A., and Simpson, M. J. (2016).Molecular composition of soil organic matter with land-use change alonga bi-continental mean annual temperature gradient. Sci. Total Environ. 573,470–480. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.08.154Prosser, J. I. (2015). Dispersing misconceptions and identifying opportunities forthe use of “omics” in soil microbial ecology. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 13, 439–446.doi: 10.1038/nrmicro3468Raes, J., Letunic, I., Y amada, T., Jensen, L. J., and Bork, P. (2011). Toward moleculartrait-based ecology through integration of biogeochemical, geographicaland metagenomic data. Mol. Syst. Biol. 7, 473–473. doi: 10.1038/msb.2011.6Rochfort, S., Ezernieks, V., Mele, P., and Kitching, M. (2015). NMR metabolomicsfor soil analysis provide complementary, orthogonal data to MIR andtraditional soil chemistry approaches – a land use study. Magn. Reson. Chem.53, 719–725. doi: 10.1002/mrc.4187Sauerschnig, C., Doppler, M., Bueschl, C., and Schuhmacher, R. (2017). Methanolgenerates numerous artifacts during sample extraction and storage ofextracts in metabolomics research. Metabolites 8:1. doi: 10.3390/metabo8010001Schimel, J. P., and Schaeﬀer, S. M. (2012). Microbial control over carbon cycling insoil.Front. Microbiol. 3:348.Schloss, P. D., Westcott, S. L., Ryabin, T., Hall, J. R., Hartmann, M., Hollister,E. B., et al. (2009). Introducing mothur: open-Source, platform-independent,community-supported software for describing and comparing microbialcommunities. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 75, 7537–7541. doi: 10.1128/aem.01541-09Schmidt, M. W. I., Torn, M. S., Abiven, S., Dittmar, T., Guggenberger, G., Janssens,I. A., et al. (2011). Persistence of soil organic matter as an ecosystem property.Nature 478, 49–56. doi: 10.1038/nature10386Schneider, T., Keiblinger, K. M., Schmid, E., Sterﬂinger-Gleixner, K., Ellersdorfer,G., Roschitzki, B., et al. (2012). Who is who in litter decomposition?Metaproteomics reveals major microbial players and their biogeochemicalfunctions. ISME J. 6, 1749–1762.Schwartz, E., Van Horn, D. J., Buelow, H. N., Okie, J. G., Gooseﬀ, M. N.,Barrett, J. E., et al. (2014). Characterization of growing bacterial populationsin McMurdo Dry Valley soils through stable isotope probing with18O-water.FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 89, 415–425. doi: 10.1111/1574-6941.12349Schweigert, M., Herrmann, S., Miltner, A., Fester, T., and Kästner, M. (2015).Fate of ectomycorrhizal fungal biomass in a soil bioreactor system and itscontribution to soil organic matter formation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 88, 120–127.doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.05.012Seifert, A.-G., Roth, V.-N., Dittmar, T., Gleixner, G., Breuer, L., Houska, T., et al.(2016). Comparing molecular composition of dissolved organic matter in soiland stream water: inﬂuence of land use and chemical characteristics. Sci. TotalEnviron. 571, 142–152. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2016.07.033Seifert, J., Taubert, M., Jehmlich, N., Schmidt, F., Völker, U., Vogt, C., et al.(2012). Protein-based stable isotope probing (protein-SIP) in functionalmetaproteomics. Mass Spectrom. Rev. 31, 683–697. doi: 10.1002/mas.21346Sharon, I., and Banﬁeld, J. F. B. (2013). Genomes from metagenomics. Science 342,1057–1058. doi: 10.1126/science.1247023Sidibé, A., Simao-Beaunoir, A.-M., Lerat, S., Giroux, L., Toussaint, V., andBeaulieu, C. (2016). Proteome analyses of soil bacteria grown in the presenceof potato suberin, a recalcitrant biopolymer. Microbes Environ. 31, 418–426.doi: 10.1264/jsme2.me15195Sipos, R., Székely, A. J., Palatinszky, M., Révész, S., Márialigeti, K., and Nikolausz,M. (2007). Eﬀect of primer mismatch, annealing temperature and PCR cyclenumber on 16S rRNA gene-targeting bacterial community analysis. FEMSMicrobiol. Ecol. 60, 341–350. doi: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2007.00283.xSix, J., Frey, S. D., Thiet, R. K., and Batten, K. M. (2006). Bacterial and fungalcontributions to carbon sequestration in agroecosystems. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J.70, 555–569. doi: 10.2136/sssaj2004.0347Souza, R. C., Hungria, M., Cantão, M. E., Vasconcelos, A. T. R., Nogueira,M. A., and Vicente, V. A. (2015). Metagenomic analysis reveals microbialfunctional redundancies and speciﬁcities in a soil under diﬀerent tillage andcrop-management regimes. Appl. Soil Ecol. 86, 106–112. doi: 10.1016/j.apsoil.2014.10.010Starke, R., Jehmlich, N., and Bastida, F. (2019). Using proteins to study howmicrobes contribute to soil ecosystem services: the current state and futureperspectives of soil metaproteomics. J. Proteomics 198, 50–58. doi: 10.1016/j.jprot.2018.11.011Sun, R., Li, W., Dong, W., Tian, Y., Hu, C., and Liu, B. (2018). Tillage changesvertical distribution of soil bacterial and fungal communities. Front. Microbiol.9:699.Swenson, T. L., Jenkins, S., Bowen, B. P., and Northen, T. R. (2015). Untargetedsoil metabolomics methods for analysis of extractable organic matter. Soil Biol.Biochem. 80, 189–198. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.10.007Swenson, T. L., Karaoz, U., Swenson, J. M., Bowen, B. P., and Northen, T. R.(2018). Linking soil biology and chemistry in biological soil crust using isolateexometabolomics. Nat. Commun. 9:19.Tatangelo, V., Franzetti, A., Gandolﬁ, I., Bestetti, G., and Ambrosini, R. (2014).Eﬀect of preservation method on the assessment of bacterial communitystructure in soil and water samples. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 356, 32–38. doi:10.1111/1574-6968.12475Tfaily, M. M., Chu, R. K., Toli ´c, N., Roscioli, K. M., Anderton, C. R., Paša-Toli ´c, L.,et al. (2015). Advanced solvent based methods for molecular characterizationof soil organic matter by high-resolution mass spectrometry. Anal. Chem. 87,5206–5215. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b00116Tfaily, M. M., Chu, R. K., Toyoda, J., Toli ´c, N., Robinson, E. W., Paša-Toli ´c, L.,et al. (2017). Sequential extraction protocol for organic matter from soils andsediments using high resolution mass spectrometry. Anal. Chim. Acta 972,54–61. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2017.03.031Turner, T. R., Ramakrishnan, K., Walshaw, J., Heavens, D., Alston, M., Swarbreck,D., et al. (2013). Comparative metatranscriptomics reveals kingdom levelchanges in the rhizosphere microbiome of plants. ISME J. 7, 2248–2258. doi:10.1038/ismej.2013.119Urich, T., Lanzén, A., Qi, J., Huson, D. H., Schleper, C., and Schuster, S. C. (2008).Simultaneous assessment of soil microbial community structure and functionthrough analysis of the meta-transcriptome. PLoS One 3:e2527. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002527von Bergen, M., Jehmlich, N., Taubert, M., Vogt, C., Bastida, F., Herbst, F.-A., et al.(2013). Insights from quantitative metaproteomics and protein-stable isotopeprobing into microbial ecology. ISME J. 7, 1877–1885. doi: 10.1038/ismej.2013.78Wang, H.-B., Zhang, Z.-X., Li, H., He, H.-B., Fang, C.-X., Zhang, A.-J., et al. (2011).Characterization of metaproteomics in crop rhizospheric soil. J. Proteome Res.10, 932–940. doi: 10.1021/pr100981rWang, Y., Hayatsu, M., and Fujii, T. (2012). Extraction of bacterial RNA from soil:challenges and solutions. Microbes Environ. 27, 111–121. doi: 10.1264/jsme2.me11304Ward, C. P., and Cory, R. M. (2015). Chemical composition of dissolved organicmatter draining permafrost soils. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 167, 63–79. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2015.07.001Warren, C. R. (2014). Response of osmolytes in soil to drying and rewetting. SoilBiol. Biochem. 70, 22–32. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.12.008Wickings, K., Stuart Grandy, A., Reed, S., and Cleveland, C. (2011). Managementintensity alters decomposition via biological pathways. Biogeochemistry 104,365–379. doi: 10.1007/s10533-010-9510-xWilliams, M. A., Taylor, E. B., and Mula, H. P. (2010). Metaproteomiccharacterization of a soil microbial community following carbon amendment.Soil Biol. Biochem. 42, 1148–1156. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.03.021Williamson, K. E., Kan, J., Polson, S. W., and Williamson, S. J.(2011). Optimizing the indirect extraction of prokaryotic DNA fromFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 15 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952fenvs-09-617952 April 30, 2021 Time: 11:29 # 16Overy et al. “Omics” and Soil Carbon Stabilizationsoils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 736–748. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.04.017Wu, X., Wu, L., Liu, Y., Zhang, P., Li, Q., Zhou, J., et al. (2018). Microbialinteractions with dissolved organic matter drive carbon dynamics andcommunity succession. Front. Microbiol. 9: 1234.Zhang, A., Sun, H., Wang, P., Han, Y., and Wang, X. (2012). Modern analyticaltechniques in metabolomics analysis. Analyst 137, 293–300. doi: 10.1039/c1an15605eZhao, J., Ni, T., Li, J., Lu, Q., Fang, Z., and Huang, Q. (2016). Eﬀectsof organic–inorganic compound fertilizer with reduced chemical fertilizerapplication on crop yields, soil biological activity and bacterial communitystructure in a rice–wheat cropping system. Appl. Soil Ecol. 99, 1–12. doi:10.1016/j.apsoil.2015.11.006Conﬂict of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in theabsence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as apotential conﬂict of interest.Copyright © 2021 Helgason B. L., and Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Canada,as represented by the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada for thecontribution of Overy D. P., Bell M. A., Habtewold J, Gregorich E. G. This is anopen-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons AttributionLicense (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted,provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that theoriginal publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academicpractice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not complywith these terms.Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org 16 April 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 617952