A review and meta-analysis of mitigation measures for nitrous oxideemissions from crop residuesDiego Abalosa,⁎, Sylvie Recousb, Klaus Butterbach-Bahlc, Chiara De Notarisa, Tatiana F. Rittld,Cairistiona F.E. Toppe, Søren O. Petersena,S i s s e lH a n s e nd,M a r i n aA .B l e k e nf, Robert M. Reese, Jørgen E. OlesenaaDepartment of Agroecology, iCLIMATE, Aarhus University, Blichers Alle 20, 8830 Tjele, DenmarkbUniversité de Reims Champagne Ardenne, INRAE, FARE, UMR A 614, 51097 Reims, FrancecInstitute of Meteorology and Climate Research (IMK-IFU), Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Garmisch-Partenkirchen 82467, GermanydNORSØK-Norwegian Centre for Organic Agriculture, Gunnars veg 6, 6630 Tingvoll, NorwayeScotland's Rural College, Kings Buildings, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JG, UKfNorwegian University of Life Sciences, Faculty of Environmental Sciences and Natural Resource Management, Elizabeth Stephensv. 13, 1433 Ås, Norwa yHIGHLIGHTSSome measures imply negative side-effects on e.g. yield, soil organic carbonstorage.Promising mitigation measures I: conver-sion into biochar or digestate.II: co-application with nitri ﬁcation inhibi-tors or N-immobilizing materialsIII: use of residues from crop mixturesGRAPHICAL ABSTRACTABSTRACT ARTICLE INFOArticle history:Received 29 November 2021Received in revised form 15 February 2022Accepted 4 March 2022Available online 8 March 2022Editor: Elena PAOLETTICrop residues are of crucial importance to maintain or even increase soil carbon stocks and fertility, and thereby to ad-dress the global challenge of climate change mitigation. However, crop residues can also potentially stimulate emis-sions of the greenhouse gas nitrous oxide (N 2O) from soils. A better understanding of how to mitigate N 2Oemissions due to crop residue management while promoting positive effects on soil carbon is needed to reconcilethe opposing effects of crop residues on the greenhouse gas balance of agroecosystems. Here, we combine a literaturereview and a meta-analysis to identify and assess measures for mitigating N 2O emissions due to crop residue applica-tion to agricultural ﬁelds. Our study shows that crop residue removal, shallow incorporation, incorporation of residueswith C:N ratio >30 and avoiding incorporation of residues from crops terminated at an immature physiological stage,are measures leading to signi ﬁcantly lower N 2O emissions. Other practices such as incorporation timing and interac-tions with fertilisers are less conclusive. Several of the evaluated N 2O mitigation measures implied negative side-effects on yield, soil organic carbon storage, nitrate leaching and/or ammonia volatilization. We identi ﬁed additionalstrategies with potential to reduce crop residue N 2O emissions without strong negative side-effects, which require fur-ther research. These are: a) treatment of crop residues before ﬁeld application, e.g., conversion of residues into biocharor anaerobic digestate, b) co-application with nitri ﬁcation inhibitors or N-immobilizing materials such as compostwith a high C:N ratio, paper waste or sawdust, and c) use of residues obtained from crop mixtures. Our study providesKeywords:Agricultural managementTillagePlant litterTrade-offsScience of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 154388⁎Corresponding author.E-mail address: d.abalos@agro.au.dk (D. Abalos).http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.1543880048-9697/© 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).Contents lists available at ScienceDirectScience of the Total Environmentjournal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scitotenva scienti ﬁc basis to be developed over the coming years on how to increase the sustainability of agroecosystems thoughadequate crop residue management.1. IntroductionRegulating atmospheric greenhouse gas (GHG) concentrations and en-suring food and nutrition for the growing world population are two of thegreatest challenges facing humanity today. Crop residue application in ag-ricultural soils has been posited as a tool to simultaneously tackle both chal-lenges. This is because crop residues contribute to maintaining or evenincreasing soil carbon storage in soils while improving soil fertility, therebyenhancing sustainability of food production ( Watson et al., 2002 ). How-ever, the potential bene ﬁts of crop residue retention (i.e., the fraction ofbiomass left on the ﬁeld and possibly incorporated into the soil followingharvest) for C sequestration and thus, climate change mitigation could bepartly or fully offset by increased emissions of the powerful greenhousegas nitrous oxide (N 2O), as shown in several meta-analyses ( Chen et al.,2013 ;Shan and Yan, 2013 ;Xia et al., 2018 ;Hu et al., 2019 ;Muhammadet al., 2019 ). Agricultural soils are the largest anthropogenic source ofN2O emissions, and N 2O emissions due to crop residue retention in agricul-turalﬁelds account for a substantial fraction of these ( EEA, 2020 ). GlobalN2O emissions from crop residues have been estimated to increase steadilyover the last decades mainly due to higher crop production, reaching ap-proximately 0.224 Gt CO 2-eq in 2017 ( FAO, 2021 ). To harness the bene ﬁtsof crop residue retention, we must identify the conditions and residue man-agement strategies that minimize N 2O emissions after application or incor-poration, avoiding trade-offs in terms of soil C sequestration and soilfertility.In this study, we combine a literature review and meta-analysis to iden-tify and assess measures for mitigating N 2O emissions from crop residues.We evaluate the degree of certainty associated to their mitigation potential,the most important general conditions under which every measure is ex-pected to be effective, and positive and negative side-effects. We also pro-pose future research avenues to address the knowledge gaps precludingeffective implementation of these measures. These knowledge gaps includethe interactions between management, climate and residue compositionthat make emissions dif ﬁcult to predict at regional and global scales.While there are other meta-analyses focused on the effect of crop residueson N 2O emissions ( Chen et al., 2013 ;Shan and Yan, 2013 ;Xia et al.,2018 ;Hu et al., 2019 ;Muhammad et al., 2019 ;Abalos et al., 2022 ), ourstudy is the ﬁrst one evaluating the residue management measures thatmay be able to mitigate such emissions, while considering potential impactson other ecosystem services.2. Materials and methods2.1. Literature reviewMitigation measures for N 2O emissions from crop residues were col-lated from the literature using ISI Web of Science, SCOPUS and GoogleScholar. The search terms were: “residue ”OR “straw ”OR “stubble ”AND“nitrous oxide ”OR “N2O ”OR “greenhouse gas ”OR “GHG ”OR “emissionfactor ”AND “measure ”OR “strategy ”. After screening the literature, themeasures were categorized according to: residue physical management,residue incorporation timing, interactions with fertilisation, additives andcrop residue modi ﬁcations, crop type, and edaphoclimatic conditions(Table 1 ). Information from the articles was used to present and discussthe individual factors (e.g., precipitation, tillage) determining the effective-ness of each measure. A comprehensive literature review (or purposive re-view following Cook (2019) ) was used as a basis to assess the positive andnegative side-effects of the mitigation measures in relation to crop yields,soil organic carbon (SOC), nitrate leaching and ammonia (NH 3) volatiliza-tion, among others.2.2. DatabaseTo gain a quantitative understanding of the potential of every residuemanagement measure to mitigate N 2O emissions from crop residues, weconducted a meta-analysis using an extended version (as describedbelow) of the database compiled by Rittl et al. (2022) .B r i eﬂy, this databasecontains data from ﬁeld studies across the world investigating the impact ofcrop residues on N 2O emissions. Crop residues are considered as any above-ground plant component of a crop returned to the soil. The databaseconsisted of 367 selected pairwise comparisons reported in 78 studies,which met predetermined quality criteria (only studies with replication,with detailed information, and performed under realistic ﬁeld conditions)(Rittl et al., 2022 ). Pairwise comparisons only included observationswhere a treatment (i.e., with crop residue retention) and a control(i.e., with crop residue removal) could be compared with all other factorsunchanged.The database provides information about the management, site, and ex-perimental factors from each study, which allowed us to test the effect ofseveral mitigation measures identi ﬁed through the literature review. Todo so, we extended the database in this study creating additional variablesthat categorize the available information into moderators for a meta-analysis. For example, according to the crop residue application method,observations were categorized as incorporated (when crop residues weremechanically incorporated into the soil) or surface applied (when residueswere retained at the soil surface without incorporation, e.g., via mulching).The speci ﬁc information about crop residue incorporation depth was cate-gorized into deep ( ≥15 cm) and shallow ( <15 cm). Information aboutfertilisation at the time when the residues were incorporated was codedas in combination with and without fertiliser application. Moreover, forstudies assessing residue management in combination with fertiliser appli-cations, we categorized studies according to the type of fertiliser applied(synthetic, organic, or combination of synthetic and organic). The timingof residue incorporation was grouped as autumn incorporation versusspring incorporation.For the measures that could not be analysed with the database, thequantitative N2O mitigation potential was derived from a literature reviewbased on individual studies for novel measures such as anaerobic digestionof crop residues or crop residue mixtures, for which the empirical evidenceis more limited ( Table 1 ). Certain management strategies, such as liming incombination with residue application were not included because therewere not enough observations in the database, and because the available in-formation did not attribute the effect of the mitigation measure to N 2Oemissions from crop residues (most available strategies are focused onfertiliser-derived N 2O emissions). Due to limited data availability, themain edaphoclimatic drivers potentially regulating each mitigation mea-sure are discussed qualitatively based on the literature review, and notquantitatively through statistical tools.2.3. Meta-analysisThe effect of mitigation measures for crop residues on soil N 2O emissionwas assessed by calculating the natural logarithmic response ratio (lnR) asan effect size for each observation ( J. Chen et al., 2020 ;X. Chen et al., 2020 ;Hedges et al., 1999 ):lnR¼lnxtxc/C18/C19with xtandxcbeing the mean cumulative N 2O emissions from a treatmentwith crop residue retention, and from a control with crop residue removal,D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543882respectively ( Abalos et al., 2022 ). The variance (Var) of lnR was calculatedas:Var¼SD2tNtx2tþSD2cNcx2cwith NtandNcas the replicate numbers, and SDt2andSDc2as the standard de-viations for the treatment and control, respectively.We conducted a weighted mixed-effects model meta-analysis using the“rma.mv ”function from R package “metafor ”(Viechtbauer, 2010 ). Sinceseveral studies contributed more than one paired observation, we consid-ered “study ”and “observation ”as random factors in the mixed-effectsmodels. For ease of interpretation, the overall effect size was convertedinto percentage change, i.e., (elnR−1)∗100%. We considered the effectsize to be signi ﬁcant (i.e., it changes N 2O emissions compared to crop resi-due removal) when the 95% CI of experimental classes did not include zero.To evaluate statistical differences between sub-groups within mitigationmeasures, we used a Wald-type test.3. Results and discussionIn this section, for every mitigation measure we ﬁrst describe the effecton N2O emissions from crop residues based on either a meta-analysis or lit-erature review (methodology based on the data availability), and then wepresent the main side-effects on ecosystem services.3.1. Crop residue removal versus residue in the ﬁeldOn average, crop residue incorporation increases soil N 2O emissions by40–50% compared to scenarios where residues are removed from the ﬁeld(Abalos et al., 2022 ). Accordingly, the easiest way to reduce N 2Oe m i s s i o n sfrom aboveground crop residue retention in the ﬁeld would be removingthe crop residues, thus eliminating N and C compounds which would fuelsoil microbial processes. However, crop residue removal cannot be general-ized as a bene ﬁcial management practice. This is because crop residue in-corporation into the soil can sometimes decrease N 2Oﬂuxes (more detailsin the following sections), and because crop residues enhance otheragroecosystem services that may outweigh the mitigation bene ﬁts forN2O of removing crop residues ( Table 1 ). For example, removing crop res-idues represents a substantial export of nutrients out of the ﬁeld, which hasnegative effects on crop yields and SOC stocks in the long-term ( Chowdhuryet al., 2015 ). An increased requirement for N fertilisation will be needed inthe medium to long term to partially compensate for the nutrient exports,increasing the risk for N 2O emissions. As SOC stocks may decrease, alsothe soil anion retention capacity decreases, which has been found to stimu-late nitrate leaching from fertiliser application ( Xia et al., 2018 ). Removalof crop residues also decreases the soil water holding capacity, soil struc-tural stability, soil water in ﬁltration as well as increase soil bulk densityand erosion, factors that may in ﬂuence negatively crop productivity andecosystem services. Crop residues sustain decomposer food webs in arablesoil; therefore, removing crop residues denies a source of energy for soil bi-ological activity and growth with potentially negative impacts on nutrientretention and soil biodiversity ( Liu et al., 2016 ;Drost et al., 2020 ). The neg-ative aspects of removing crop residues from the ﬁeld could be partiallycompensated if they are used for e.g., biofuel production and biore ﬁnery,which would increase farmers´ revenue and decrease farm level GHGemissions.3.2. Crop residue type: avoid incorporation of residues from immature cropsThe effect of crop residues on soil N2O emissions, and the potential ofmitigation measures to curb N 2O emissions from crop residues, is largelyTable 1Overview of mitigation measures for N 2O emissions from crop residues.Categorization Mitigation measure MitigationpotentialTimeframeNegative side-effects Positive side-effectsRemoval Crop residue removal versus residue in theﬁeldHigh Short andlong term- Lower SOC, yield, and soilphysical and biological quality- Higher N leaching and soilerosion- Feedstock for biofuel and biore ﬁnery- Lower NH3Crop residue type Avoid incorporation of residues fromimmature cropsHigh Short andlong term- Lower SOC- Higher costs, N fertiliserrequirement- Animal feed- Higher yieldSoil management Residues left at the ﬁeld surface(e.g., mulching) instead of residue incorpo-rationLow Short term - Higher NH3- Lower yield- Lower N leaching, soil evaporation,and soil erosionShallow instead of deep incorporation Medium Short andlong term- Lower yield- Higher use of pesticides, NH 3- Higher SOC, soil fauna, waterinﬁltration and moisture conservation- Lower costs, soil erosionTiming of residue incorporation Autumn instead of spring incorporation Low Short term - Higher N leaching, soilerosion, P losses- Higher yieldCrop residue incorporation when the soil isdry instead of when the soil is wetMedium Short term - Better soil structureInteractions with fertilisation Synthetic instead of organic fertiliser Medium Short term - Lower SOC- Higher off-farm GHGemissions- Higher yieldResidue removal, transformation,and return under other formsBiochar High Short andlong term- Higher costs- Lower nutrient supply- Higher yield, SOC, soil physical andbiological quality- Lower N leachingAnaerobic digestion Low toMediumShort term - Lower SOC - Heat and power generationAdditives for application with cropresiduesNitriﬁcation inhibitors Medium Short term - Higher costs - Lower N leaching- Higher yieldN-immobilizing materials with high C:NratioMedium Short andlong term- Lower yield - Lower N leaching- Higher SOC, CH4uptakeCrop mixtures Crop mixtures instead of single crops Medium Short andlong term- Increased managementcomplexity and costs- Higher SOC, yield, biodiversity- Lower N leaching, soil erosionInteractions with edaphoclimaticconditionsCrop residue incorporation in clay soilsinstead of incorporation in sandy soilsMedium Long term - Lower yield - Lower N leaching, NH 3- Higher SOCCrop residue incorporation when aridityindex is <1Medium Long term - Lower SOC, soil health - Lower N leachingD. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543883driven by the type of crop residue. This is because crop residues can havelarge differences in biochemical characteristics. The most common bio-chemical property used to predict the effect of crop residues on N 2Oe m i s -sions is the C:N ratio. Crop residues with a C:N ratio lower than 20 –30are expected to cause net N mineralization due to their high N concentra-tion, while those with C:N ratios higher than 30, as is generally the casein cereal straw, were found to result in net N immobilization ( Alexander,1977 ;Trinsoutrot et al., 2000 ;Redin et al., 2014 ). A recent meta-analysisconﬁrms this threshold and indicates that the balance between net N min-eralization and immobilization explains the differences in N 2O emissionsbetween crop types according to their C:N ratios ( Abalos et al., 2022 ). Im-mobilization of soil N may decrease N 2O emissions due to reduced avail-ability of ammonium and nitrate for the processes of nitri ﬁcation anddenitri ﬁcation ( Baggs et al., 2000 ).Recent studies have shown that the degree of crop maturity at which theresidues are generated can be a simple and robust way to integrate crop res-idue biochemical characteristics of importance for N 2O emissions, in addi-tion to the C:N ratio. According to this categorization, incorporation ofresidues from immature crops into the soil after crop termination increasesN2O emissions compared to incorporation of residues from mature crops(Abalos et al., 2022 ;Janz et al., 2022 ;Lashermes et al., 2022 ). Immatureresidues show a speci ﬁc overall composition of low C:N ratio (due to highN concentration), low cellulose content, and high soluble dry matter andwater-soluble C contents. The high content of water-soluble C and easily de-composable C provide an energy source for denitrifying bacteria and forgeneral microbial activity that deplete soil O2via enhanced soil respiration(Li et al., 2016 ;Surey et al., 2020 ), stimulating denitri ﬁcation. Indeed, de-nitriﬁcation is frequently the main source of short-term N 2O emissionswhen organic matter containing highly degradable C is applied to soil(Köster et al., 2011 ;Li et al., 2016 ;Surey et al., 2020 ). When there is ahigh content of easily mineralizable N or even nitrate in immature residuesor the ammonium present in the residue is rapidly nitri ﬁed. The risk forhigh N 2O emissions caused by denitri ﬁcation is therefore large. Immatureresidues are mainly represented by green plant biomass (cover crops, vege-table residues, and grasslands), whereas mature residues are mainly strawfrom cereals, rice, maize or grain legumes.Cover crops provide a wide range of ecosystem services ( Haruna andNkongolo, 2015 ), including reductions of N losses in the form of nitrateleaching ( Abdalla et al., 2019 ), potentially reducing soil N 2O emissions dur-ing their growing phase due to the depletion of soil inorganic N and the ab-sence of fertilisation. These effects may be species-speci ﬁc, with legumespromoting higher emissions than non-legumes due to their lower capac-ity/need to acquire N from the soil ( Muhammad et al., 2019 ). In grassland,herbage incorporation by ploughing may also strongly enhance N 2Oe m i s -sions, especially legume-based herbage. Compared to roots and stubbles,herbage has a higher degradability due to its biochemical compositionand lack of interaction with soil mineral particles ( Rasse et al., 2005,2006 ). Residues from vegetable production are particularly prone to caus-ing high N 2O emissions due to the high input of highly degradable C andN from their residues, and due to their high requirements for fertilisers, ir-rigation, and tillage ( Baggs et al., 2000 ;Nett et al., 2015 ;Nett et al., 2016 ;Qasim et al., 2021 ).Alternatives to incorporation of immature crop residues may have pos-itive side-effects. For example, immature crops can be sold as animal feed,increasing farmer's revenue. Incorporating cover crop residues into the soilmay hinder rapid establishment of the succeeding crop by slow soilwarming when used as mulch ( O'Brien and Daigh, 2019 ), or due to releaseof growth inhibiting substances ( Putnam and DeFrank, 1983 ). By removingcrop residues, the risk for transferring residue-borne pathogens and plantdiseases from one season to the next, decreases ( Govaerts et al., 2007 ).Many of these negative aspects can be avoided or reduced if crop residuesare removed from the ﬁeld, or if residues are treated (biochar or digestate,seeSection 3.6 ) before incorporation. On the other hand, there are numer-ous reasons to incorporate immature crop residues into the soil. They arenutrient rich, and therefore incorporation into the soil may increase nutri-ent supply to the succeeding crop and decrease N fertiliser requirements,which is of particular importance for organic vegetable growers. Covercrop incorporation of Brassica species can be used to control some soil-borne pests and diseases but may promote others. Removing cover crop,vegetable residues and surplus vegetables from ﬁelds is costly and time con-suming at a time of the year with heavy workloads for the farmer.3.3. Soil management3 . 3 . 1 . R e s i d u e sl e f ta tt h e ﬁeld surface (e.g., mulching) versus residueincorporationThe decay rate of crop residues placed on the soil surface is generallyslower than if incorporated into the soil. This is because highly variablemoisture conditions and N limitation at the soil surface hamper residue de-composition, and this is particularly true for mature residues having moder-ate to high C:N ratio ( Coppens et al., 2007 ;Chaves et al., 2021 ;Chen et al.,2014 ). Surface-applied residues may increase the distance between C sub-strates and soil N, limiting N availability for decomposers and thus loweringsoil N immobilization effects by residues ( Coppens et al., 2007 ). Therefore,residues may increase mineral N, soluble C and moisture at the soil-mulchinterface, representing a hot spot of denitri ﬁcation ( Kravchenko et al.,2018 ). Thus, surface application of residues could lead either to lower orhigher N2O emissions depending on the environmental conditions (rain-evaporation regime, and residue type, mulch mass and thickness). This isreﬂected in our meta-analysis, where N 2O emissions from surface-appliedor incorporated residues are not signi ﬁcantly different due to the large var-iation within each category ( Fig. 1 ).There are several positive side-effects of leaving residues on the ﬁeldsurface. Residue surface application protects the soil surface against theerosive impacts of rainfall, and it may also reduce the formation of surfacecracks and crusts ( Blanco-Canqui et al., 2006 ). It also reduces soil evapora-tion, which is a critical factor for crop production in dry climates ( Qin et al.,2015 ). A reduction in nitrate leaching and runoff can be achieved by sur-face crop residue application compared to soil incorporation ( Xia et al.,2018 ). There are also some negative side-effects of leaving residues ontheﬁeld surface: part of the residue N may be lost as NH 3(Xia et al.,2018 ;Janz et al., 2022 ), and additionally the presence of mulch may en-hance NH 3volatilization of surface applied fertiliser ( Pinheiro et al.,2019 ). This, together with slower decomposition of surface-applied plantresidues, may reduce or postpone N availability to crops and therefore af-fect their growth and yields. Leaving plant residues on the soil surfacealso creates a cooler and wetter environment at the soil surface than incor-poration of plant residues into the soil ( Chen et al., 2014 ), which may delayplant growth, speci ﬁcally in early growth stages in cool and wet climates.0102030405060708090100Incorporated SurfaceEffect of crop residues on N2Oemissions (%)******NSFig. 1. Relative increase in ﬁeld N 2O emission (mean ± 95% CIs) with cropresidues, as affected by residue placement. The number of observations andstudies were 264 and 59 for incorporated, 75 and 21 for surface. *** indicatessigniﬁcance at p <0.001, and NS indicates not signi ﬁcant. Incorporated andsurface applied crop residues increased N2Oe m i s s i o n sr e l a t i v et ot h ec o n t r o l(with the residues removed), whereas the difference between the two placementtreatments was not signi ﬁcant.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 15438843.3.2. Shallow versus deep incorporationAlthough the effect was not signi ﬁcant, our meta-analysis indicates atrend for higher N 2O emissions when crop residues were incorporated atdepth ( >15 cm) as compared to a shallower incorporation ( Fig. 2 ;P≤0.10). This is probably an interactive effect of crop residue placement andthe tillage system required for such placement. Six et al. (2004) arguedthat long-term adoption of no-till as compared to reduced tillage(i.e., shallow incorporation) increases soil organic matter content in theupper soil layers, and results in improved soil structure. The latter may de-crease the tendency for the formation of anaerobic microsites conducive toN2O production ( Malhi et al., 2006 ;Ussiri et al., 2009 ). Additionally, O 2dif-fusion rates decrease with soil depth, thus crop residue decomposition ismore likely to cause O 2limitation and increase N 2O emissions if the resi-dues are incorporated to a soil depth >15 cm by mouldboard ploughingas opposed to a shallower incorporation ( Petersen et al., 2011 ). These re-sults were supported by the meta-analysis of Van Kessel et al. (2013) ,a n dthis trend is also observed in our study. Shallow crop residue incorporationwith reduced tillage has several advantages: it may increase SOC concentra-tions in the upper soil layers, save fuel and labour which lowers ﬁeld man-agement costs, preserve earthworms and other soil fauna, improve waterinﬁltration and soil moisture conservation, prevent soil erosion and im-prove traf ﬁcability ( Spiess et al., 2020 ). The negative side-effects of shallowincorporation with reduced tillage are that, depending on cropping condi-tions and climate, it may require increased use of herbicides, reduce cropyields and yield stability in cool and wet climates (due to e.g., soilwaterlogging and/or lower soil temperature hampering crop establish-ment, soil compaction limiting root development), promote strati ﬁcationof phosphorus and potassium in the soil pro ﬁle, and may promote largerNH3losses ( Spiess et al., 2020 ).3.4. Timing of residue incorporation3.4.1. Autumn versus spring incorporationOur meta-analysis did not ﬁnd an effect of the season in which cropresidues are incorporated on the magnitude of N 2Or e l e a s e d( Fig. 3 ). Itis likely that the speci ﬁc quality parameters of the crop residues thatare incorporated in either the autumn or spring, which is determinedby the interaction between crop physiology, available resources andthe environmental conditions of a g iven geographical location, aremore important drivers of the magnitude of N 2O release than the sea-son of incorporation per se. Although farmers cannot choose the har-vest time of their crops, they can manage tillage timing to someextent and therefore the timing of residue incorporation into the soil,which will in ﬂuence several factors (e.g., mineral N, soil moisture,etc.) depending on the climatic conditions and risks identi ﬁed. Fore x a m p l e ,p l o u g h i n gi nt h ea u t u m nc a np r e v e n tNi m m o b i l i z a t i o nd u r -ing the plant growth period in spring/summer of a spring cereal (notethat the speci ﬁc seasons differ according to latitude), and thereforeincrease yield. This will also avoid that residue application coincideswith synthetic N fertilisation, which may trigger N 2O emissions(Taghizadeh-Toosi et al., 2021 ). The main negative consequences of au-tumn incorporation are that it may increase nitrate leaching ( Hansenand Djurhuus, 1997 ;Stenberg et al., 1999 ), and the risk for soil erosionand losses of phosphorus ( Bechmann and Bøe, 2021 ). In areas prone tofreezing during winter, residue incorporation in the autumn can greatlyincrease N 2O emissions compared to incorporation in the spring(Wagner-Riddle et al., 2017 ).3.4.2. Crop residue incorporation when the soil is dry versus when the soil is wetIncorporating crop residues when the soil is wet due to rainfall or irriga-tion may increase N 2O emissions ( Taghizadeh-Toosi et al., 2021 ). This isbecause increased litter decomposition and reduced O 2diffusion into soilsunder wet conditions increase the occurrence of anaerobic microsites insoils ( Kravchenko et al., 2017 ), which stimulates N 2O production by deni-triﬁcation not only due to anaerobiosis but also by provisioning of labileC(Butterbach-Bahl et al., 2013 ). However, clear generalizations regardingthis effect are not possible, since the outcome in terms of N 2O emissions islikely to depend on interactions between soil moisture, residue incorpora-tion depth, soil properties including soil compaction, as well as residueproperties ( Kravchenko et al., 2018 ). Reviewing pairwise comparisons ofN2O emissions from no-till vs. ploughed systems. Rochette et al. (2008)found that higher soil water content in no-till soils usually results in loweraeration and greater N 2O emissions as compared to tilled soils. However,deeper incorporation by ploughing under wet soil conditions may resultin large anaerobic zones in the soil due to reduced O 2diffusion and stimu-lated microbial respiration from increased substrate availability. This maypromote complete denitri ﬁcation with N 2as sole end-product and in turndecrease N 2O emissions ( Paul et al., 2012 ). Incorporating crop residuesunder suitable dry soil conditions is important to maintain a good soil struc-ture and avoid soil compaction. Ideally, residues should be incorporatedwhen the soil is dry, but with expected rain ahead in arid and semiarid re-gions, as water stress at the time of residue incorporation slows down itsmineralization by the soil microbial community ( Manzoni et al., 2012 ;Thapa et al., 2021 ).-20020406080100120140Deep incorporation Sha llow incorporationEffect of crop residues on N2Oemissions (%)***NSNSFig. 2. Relative increase in ﬁeld N 2O emission (mean ± 95% CIs) with cropresidues, as affected by residue incorporation depth (deep incorporation >15 cm;shallow incorporation <15 cm). The number of observations and studies were104 and 23 for deep incorporation, 62 and 18 for shallow incorporation. ***indicates signi ﬁcance at p <0.001, and NS indicates not signi ﬁcant. Althoughdeep residue incorporation increased N 2O emissions relative to the control (withthe residues removed) and shallow incorporation did not, the difference betweenthe two incorporation depths was not signi ﬁcant at P = 0.05 (a trend wasobserved; P ≤0.10).NS0102030405060708090100Autumn SpringEffect of crop residues on N2Oemissions (%)***Fig. 3. Relative increase in ﬁeld N 2O emission (mean ± 95% CIs) with cropresidues, as affected by season of residue incorporation. The number ofobservations and studies were 61 and 16 for autumn incorporation, 133 and 30for spring incorporation. *, ** indicate signi ﬁcance at p <0.05 and p <0.01,respectively, and NS indicates not signi ﬁcant. Crop residue retention in Springand Autumn increased N2O emissions relative to the control (with the residuesremoved), whereas the difference between the seasons was not signi ﬁcant.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 15438853.5. Interactions with fertilisationStudies using15N-labelled fertilisers applied in combination withcrop residues have found that the fertiliser is the dominant sourceof N 2O(Machado et al., 2021 ). When N fertilisers are applied withcrop residues (particularly matu re residues with a high C:N ratio),part of the available N from the fertiliser can be immobilized due tothe supply of organic C from the residues. Accordingly, the availabil-ity of soil mineral N and the release of N 2O from the soil are reduced.This is consistent with studies t hat have shown a reduction in N 2Oemissions if crop residues and fertiliser N are applied at the sametime ( Xu et al., 2019 ). However, other studies have shown that N 2Oemissions can be increased where a combination of fertiliser and res-idues are applied to soil ( Abalos et al., 2013 ). It is likely that thesedifferent outcomes are explained by the type of residues returnedand associated net immobilization/mineralization processes, as ex-plained above. Other controlling factors may be the fertiliser form(e.g., granule or liquid), and the spatial distribution of the fertiliserand the residues in the soil, as these factors determine the physicalinteraction between them.We found a greater increase in N 2O emissions induced by crop res-i d u e sw h e ni n c o r p o r a t e dw i t ho r g a n ic fertilisers as compared to thejoint application of residues and synthetic N fertilisers ( Fig. 4 ). It ispossible that the anaerobic environment created by organic fertilisersdue to the addition of organic C and water may favour denitri ﬁcationand associated N 2O emissions ( Decock, 2014 ). However, it is alsopossible that this result is due to a confounding effect betweenfertiliser type and residue type, since most crop residues linked toorganic fertiliser application in o ur database were immature crops(grasslands, vegetables and cover crops), which induce higher N 2Oemissions. Even if organic fertilisers increase N 2O emissionsfrom crop residues, their use is crucial for the delivery of otheragroecosystem services. This is because organic fertilisers provideseveral nutrients (e.g., P, K) in addition to N, and may increase SOCand yield in poor soils. Using organic fertilisers avoids energy con-sumption and emissions of GHGs during the industrial Haber-Boschprocess of N- ﬁxation for synthetic fertiliser production and promotescircularity of nutrients at farm to regional scale.3.6. Residue removal, transformation, and return under other forms3.6.1. BiocharA potential strategy to mitigate N 2O emissions from crop residues is toturn them into biochar, and then apply this material to the ﬁeld. Biocharis the C-rich product derived from biomass pyrolysis of organic feedstocks,such as crop residues. Recent meta-analyses have shown that biochar candecrease N 2O emissions after application with an average reduction ofabout 20% ( Shakoor et al., 2021 ); however, a meta-analysis of ﬁeld studiesacross several cropping systems, including maize, wheat, rice, vegetables,and pasture showed no robust evidence for emissions reductions despitetendencies for reductions of up to 17% ( Verhoeven et al., 2017 ). The pro-cesses by which biochar affects N 2O emissions remain poorly understood(Cayuela et al., 2014 ) and may, in addition to changes in chemical andphysical soil structure, involve changes in the soil microbial community af-fecting N 2O reducers ( Krause et al., 2018 ). The pyrolysis process will re-move most of the N from the biochar, and the resulting biochar materialdegrades very slowly in soil and has negligible N fertilisation effects. There-fore, N in the removed crop residues needs to be substituted by other Nsources, typically fertiliser N.The use of biochar presents numerous positive side-effects. The pyroly-sis process produces gas that may be used for producing fuels or heat forsubstituting fossil fuels. Biochar has been shown to be stable in soil, and itmay also contribute to stabilisation of existing soil organic C, having overallpositive effects on soil C sequestration ( Wang et al., 2016 ). In addition, bio-char application will in general improve soil physical and chemical proper-ties such as increasing the pH of acidic soils, water and nutrient retention,and cation exchange capacity ( Biederman and Harpole, 2013 ;Borchardet al., 2019 ). This may lead to improved crop yields, where such soil prop-erties are currently limiting crop growth and yield ( Majunder et al., 2019 ).A recent meta-analysis has shown that biochar addition reduced nitrateleaching by on average 13% ( Borchard et al., 2019 ), but only in arablefarming and vegetable cropping, with no effects in perennial cropping sys-tems.Barriers to the use of biochar are its production, distribution and appli-cation costs, and the fact that the process of biochar production largelyremoves N from the biomass, so that this needs to be substituted fromother sources; however, the greater retention of nutrients in biocharamended soils may reduce the long-term effects of this reduction in N in-puts ( Biederman and Harpole, 2013 ). Another negative effect of removingcrop residues for production of biochar is the lower inputs of metabolizableC that can support macro- and micro-fauna, and this may have longer termnegative effects on soil biodiversity and soil functions ( Tibbett et al., 2020 ).3.6.2. Anaerobic digestionCrop residues may be collected and treated by anaerobic digestion,alone or together with livestock manure, to produce biogas and (co)digestates. The speci ﬁcs of biogas treatment, however, will depend on thebiomass processed. Considerable efforts have been made to exploit ﬁbre-rich crop residues such as straw from rapeseed, maize, wheat, rice, andhigh-yielding grasses grown for bioenergy production. Yu et al. (2019) re-ported that physical (e.g., milling, extrusion, and steam explosion) andchemical (various bases, acids, and hydrogen peroxide oxidation) pre-treatments may increase biogas yields by 30 to 70% compared to the un-treated biomass. Fibre-rich co-digestates may increase residual organicmatter and add value to digestates as a soil conditioner, but not as a Nfertiliser. This is different when using residues of green manure cropssuch as leys ( Frøseth et al., 2014 ;De Notaris et al., 2018 ) or winter covercrops as co-digestates; given the higher degradability and lower C:N ratioof these immature residues, the anaerobic digestion will typically result innet N mineralization and increasing ammoniacal N availability during di-gestion. Thus, anaerobic digestion of grass-legume leys has been proposedas a strategy to redistribute N within crop rotations and to increase cropproductivity of organic farms ( Brozyna et al., 2013 ;Frøseth et al., 2014 ;Pugesgaard et al., 2014 ). Applying anaerobic digestates has implicationsfor C and N turnover as the applied organic matter has a reduced-20020406080100120140160180Synthetic Mix OrganicEffect of crop residues on N2Oemissions (%)**NSNS*NSNSFig. 4. Relative increase in ﬁeld N 2O emission (mean ± 95% CIs) with cropresidues, as affected by the type of fertiliser applied at the time when the residueswere incorporated. The number of observations and studies were 154 and 51 forsynthetic, 3 and 1 for mixture of synthetic and organic, 33 and 7 for organic. *, **indicate signi ﬁcance at p <0.05 and p <0.01, respectively, and NS indicates notsigniﬁcant. Crop residue incorporation with organic fertilisers increased N2Oemissions relative to the control (with the residues removed), but not withsynthetic N fertilisers or with a combination of organic and synthetic. Theincrease in N 2O emissions induced by crop residues was higher whenincorporated with organic fertilisers than with synthetic N fertilisers.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543886availability of easily degradable C, and consequently, the stimulating effecton the soil microbial community is limited. This also means that soils stayaerobic following anaerobic digestate application, which reduces the po-tential to stimulate N 2O emissions ( Brozyna et al., 2013 ). However, itshould be acknowledged that residual (particulate) organic matter indigestates has a high water retention capacity compared to bulk soil and,if co-digested with livestock manure, will give N-rich organic hotspotsthat may still have a potential for high N 2O emissions ( Baral et al., 2017 ).Therefore, the balance between stimulation or reduction of soil N 2Oe m i s -sions will depend on the interaction between digestate quality and soil con-ditions ( Thomsen et al., 2010 ;Li et al., 2016 ).Heat and power generation from anaerobic digestion may partially sub-stitute fossil fuels and thereby reduce radiative forcing from anthropogenicemissions of carbon dioxide ( Don et al., 2012 ). Digestates normally containa higher proportion of N in mineral form available for plant uptake(Sommer and Husted, 1995 ;De Vries et al., 2012 ), and this will alsoapply when immature crop residues are digested. Following biogas treat-ment, the digestate of crop residues can be recycled for maintenance ofsoil C stocks and soil quality ( Thomsen et al., 2013 ), but the effect on thelong-term stabilisation of soil C stocks (per unit of initial residue amount)remains to be clari ﬁed. Organic matter stabilisation occurs at residue-soilinterfaces ( Witzgall et al., 2021 ), and hence occlusion and stabilisationmay be closely associated with the initial decomposition process that isintercepted by removal of residues for treatment, although this stabilisationmechanism may well be less important for aboveground compared to be-lowground residues ( Rasse et al., 2005 ).3.7. Additives for application with crop residues3.7.1. Nitri ﬁcation inhibitorsIn recent years, the potential of nitri ﬁcation inhibitors (NIs) to reduce Nlosses from crop residues has been explored. NIs were developed to im-prove the N use ef ﬁciency of synthetic and organic fertilisers. Synthetic in-hibitors such as dicyandiamide (DCD), nitrapyrin, and 3,4-dimethyl-pyrazole phosphate (DMPP), operate by chelating Cu, which is involvedin the ﬁrst step of nitri ﬁcation, ammonia oxidation ( Subbarao et al.,2006 ;Corrochano-Monsalve et al., 2021 ). The inhibition is temporaryand will cease with biodegradation of the NI ( Lees, 1946 ).Numerous studies have shown that NIs can reduce emissions of N2Ofrom nitri ﬁcation by inhibiting ammonia monooxygenase activity ( Byrneet al., 2020 ), and from denitri ﬁcation and nitri ﬁer denitri ﬁcation by reduc-ing the production of nitrate and nitrite ( Ruser and Schulz, 2015 ). Whenused with synthetic fertilisers or manure, NIs often lead to 30 –50% N 2Or e -ductions ( Qiao et al., 2015 ). It is therefore relevant to elucidate if NIs canalso mediate against emissions of N 2O from crop residues. Chaves et al.(2006) found that treating vegetable crop residues with DCD or DMPP be-fore incorporation reduced N 2O emissions. Ammonia oxidising bacteriaare stimulated near interfaces between the soil and residues, and this activ-ity can be inhibited by treating aboveground parts of grass-legume pastureswith DMPP prior to incorporation ( Duan et al., 2017 ). However, the effecton N 2O emissions is variable, and effects ranging from 0 to 33% reductionhave been observed in studies simulating spraying of grassland with DMPPbefore cultivation ( Duan et al., 2017 ;Kong et al., 2017 ;Nair et al., 2020 ).Treatment effects depend on residue distribution, and on soil O 2andNO3−availability, and together these factors determine the balance be-tween aerobic and anaerobic residue decomposition, and the proportionof N 2O being converted to N 2(Senbayram et al., 2012 ).Since NH 4+is much less mobile in soil environments compared to NO 3−or NO 2−, NIs can reduce nitrate leaching ( Qiao et al., 2015 ) and thereby sup-port higher N use ef ﬁciency in crop production ( Abalos et al., 2014 ). As ni-triﬁcation is also an O 2consuming process, its inhibition may alsosubstantially increase soil O 2availability for residue decomposition aroundresidue-soil interfaces ( Nguyen et al., 2017 ). Some aspects need to be con-sidered before NIs can be widely adopted. The use of nitri ﬁcation inhibitorsrepresents a cost to farmers, and incentives could be necessary if introducedfor GHG mitigation. Cost estimates vary widely, from 10 to 90 €ha−1yr−1(MacLeod et al., 2015 ). The delay of ammonia oxidation can increase NH 3volatilization ( Qiao et al., 2015 ), although this will be small if residues areincorporated into the soil. No adverse effects or change in feeding behav-iour of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris were seen in a mesocosm studywith15N labelled clover residues with or without DMPP treatment ofabove-ground parts ( Kong et al., 2017 ), which indicates that non-target ef-fects on e.g., the soil fauna may be limited, although this should be docu-mented for individual NIs before being widely adopted.3.7.2. N-immobilizing materials with high C:N ratioCo-incorporation of N-immobilizing organic materials with immaturecrop residues can be a strategy to reduce N losses from crop residues(Congreves et al., 2013 ;Agneessens et al., 2014 ). It has been shown thatmaterials such as immature compost with a high C:N ratio, straw, paperwaste and sawdust can reduce nitrate leaching under controlled conditions,but the effect on N 2O emissions has not been widely investigated ( Chaveset al., 2005 ). In a laboratory experiment, Chaves et al. (2005) found thatco-incorporation of straw, immature compost and sawdust with residuesfrom celery reduced cumulative N 2O emissions by more than 50%. How-ever, homogeneous mixing of the organic materials is important to obtainN immobilization, and this can be dif ﬁcult to achieve under ﬁeld conditions(Chaves et al., 2005 ), and such efforts may also increase costs and manage-ment complexity for farmers. Depending on the characteristics of the or-ganic materials and the speci ﬁc conditions in the soil, the Nimmobilization phase could be followed more or less rapidly by re-mineralization ( Chen et al., 2014 ). Thus, N 2O emissions could pick up inthe medium to long term.Co-incorporation of N-immobilizing materials can lead to decreased ni-trate leaching, and co-addition of organic C may potentially increase SOC inthe long term, with possible positive effects on crop yield in poor soils.Transient increases in CH 4oxidation (sink) capacity in upland soils havebeen observed ( Ho et al., 2015 ). As with mature residues having high C:Nratios, the potentially negative impacts of net N immobilization need tobe managed carefully.3.8. Crop mixtures versus single cropsResidues from crop mixtures may decrease (or increase) N 2O emissionscompared to single crop residues. The reason is that mixtures of crop resi-dues with contrasting biochemical characteristics can promote positive ornegative non-additive effects on N release from the residues ( Redin et al.,2014 ;Porre et al., 2020 ), with potential consequences for N 2Oe m i s s i o n s .Non-additive effects are frequently explained by the nutrient transfer hy-pothesis: decomposers ﬁrst use residues with a high N concentration, andthen the released N becomes available and facilitates the decompositionof the more recalcitrant crop residue fractions ( Hättenschwiler et al.,2005 ;Handa et al., 2014 ). Alternative explanations for positive non-additive effects include changes in C:N ratios ( Zhou et al., 2019 ), improvedwater retention due to one of the residues in the mixture ( Wardle et al.,2003 ), and enhanced fungal decomposer community due to wider variationin residue biochemical properties ( Hättenschwiler et al., 2005 ;Otsing et al.,2018 ). Conversely, transfer of inhibitory compounds and/or phenolics be-tween residues may cause negative non-additive effects ( Freschet et al.,2012 ). These interactions have been mainly studied to understand decom-position rates and nutrient release from litter mixtures, but the conse-quences for N 2O emissions remain elusive. In the few available studiesevaluating N 2O emissions from plant mixtures under ﬁeld conditions, thecontribution of residue-derived N 2O emissions was not determined(e.g., Davis et al., 2019 ;Abalos et al., 2021 ). If future research con ﬁrmsthe N 2O mitigation potential of residue mixtures, they can be implementedin many agroecosystems: multi-species swards in grasslands, cover crops,diversi ﬁed crop rotations (effects such as changes in decomposer communi-ties are expected to act over longer time-frames than a cropping season),and also in intercropping ( Abalos et al., 2019 ). For cropping systemspreventing simultaneous cultivation of more than one crop in a ﬁeld, directapplication of crop residue mixtures can be an alternative option.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543887Plant species mixtures can provide a range of ecosystem services,such as increased crop and forage yield, yield stability, pollinator diver-sity and production, and weed and pest suppression ( Isbell et al., 2017 ).Plant mixtures can also reduce nitrate leaching and soil erosion ( Gurret al., 2003 ;Leimer et al., 2015 ;Tribouillois et al., 2016 ), and increaseSOC ( J. Chen et al., 2020 ;X. Chen et al., 2020 ). The challenges ofimplementing plant mixtures include, among others, development ofnew machinery, dif ﬁculties selecting species according to local climaticand soil variables, as well as adjusting N fertiliser management to multi-species mixtures ( Abalos et al., 2019 ). These dif ﬁculties may reduceadoption by farmers.3.9. Interactions with edaphoclimatic conditions3.9.1. Crop residue incorporation in clay soils versus incorporation in sandy soilsPrevious meta-analyses have found lower N2O emissions after crop res-idue application to ﬁelds for soils with a high clay content ( Chen et al.,2013 ;Xia et al., 2018 ). This may be because high clay content(i) decreases soil aeration and O 2availability, thereby decreasing residueN release from decomposition ( Skiba and Ball, 2002 ), and (ii) lowers gasdiffusivity, promoting N 2O reduction to N 2via complete denitri ﬁcation(Gu et al., 2013 ). This implies that avoiding crop residue incorporation incoarse-textured soils whenever possible could be an N 2O mitigation strat-egy. From a climate change perspective, this may provide a dual bene ﬁt:ﬁne-textured soils, which have the highest potential to sequester C viacrop residue incorporation ( Hütsch et al., 2002 ;Mathew et al., 2020 ),may be the ones with the lowest N 2O emissions after crop residue incorpo-ration, particularly if the initial SOC content is low. This needs to be con-ﬁrmed in future studies, since the positive relationship between soil claycontent and the capacity of soil to store C is not always consistent ( Liuet al., 2014 ), and because increases in SOC may eventually lead to higherN2Oe m i s s i o n s( Guenet et al., 2021 ). From an implementation perspective,farmers do not get to choose the soil texture of their ﬁelds, and thereforeany action to address this mitigation measure must be mediated via re-gional, national and international land use policies. These policies mustconsider other important side-effects of incorporating crop residues intothe soil according to soil type. Indeed, due to differences in water holdingcapacity, crop residue retention may increase nitrate leaching losses insandy soils, while it may reduce them in loamy and clay-textured soils(Xia et al., 2018 ). In addition to higher soil C retention following crop res-idue return in ﬁne-textured soils, NH3volatilization from crop residues isalso lower in these soils due to higher CEC and ammonium adsorption byclay particles ( Xia et al., 2018 ).3.9.2. Aridity index <1v s>1Recently, the IPCC guidelines for emission inventories divided the emis-sion factors of N sources, including crop residues, according to an aridityindex (AI; mean annual precipitation to mean annual potential evapotrans-piration). Higher emissions are assigned to crop residues in regions whereAI is>1 (0.6%; uncertainty range 0.1 –1.1%) compared to regions whereAI is<1 (0.5%; uncertainty range 0.0 –1.1%). A recent meta-analysis sup-ports this decision ( Abalos et al., 2022 ), although the differentiation forcrop residues may be stronger than indicated by IPCC, since N 2Oe m i s s i o n sfrom crop residues were 2 times higher for studies conducted under an AI>1. Consequently, limiting crop residue retention in regions where the AI>1 could be particular important for mitigation. However, as with soilclay content, this strategy to reduce N 2O emissions from crop residues re-quires thorough examination before it can be implemented by national orinternational land use policies, speci ﬁcally as side effects on soil C storageare to be expected. That is, avoiding crop residue incorporation in regionswith AI >1 may reduce soil C ( Hu et al., 2018 ), and negatively impact soilhealth ( Jansson et al., 2021 ). From a climate change perspective, AI isprojected to decline in some regions ( Lickley and Solomon, 2018 ), thus po-tentially reducing N 2O emissions. For a given soil texture, with decreasingAI, soil moisture is likely to be lower, and thus reduce the risk of nitrateleaching losses from the incorporated residues.4. Future research prioritiesIn general, we argue that studies focused on crop residues should run forat least 10 years, since changes in SOC and associated side-effects are slowand likely undetectable over shorter time frames. Long-term monitoring ofN2O and N losses through hydrological pathways would also be required tounderstand the impact of e.g., high C:N residues ( >30), and of adding N-immobilizing materials such as green waste compost or sawdust on N lossesand to detect effects due to the possible re-mineralization of theimmobilized N ( Chaves et al., 2005 ). Such long-term studies should explorethe maximum amount of residues that can be removed from the ﬁeld undergiven management and climate regimes to avoid soil degradation ( Meranteet al., 2017 ), and the potential for using surplus residues as biofuel feed-stock. We also stress that existing long-term trials need to be continued,but with a wider, multi-criteria focus, including GHG balances, nitrateleaching, yields, pathogens, and economic assessments, and expanded fordifferent residue management options.Up to now there is no targeted research available investigating the im-pact of residue incorporation timing in relation to soil moisture conditions,thereby considering effects on soil hydrological properties, decomposition,and risk for environmental N losses in the form of NH 3volatilization, nitrateleaching, N 2Oo rN 2emissions. Retention of residues in the autumn (insteadof residue removal or incorporation by ploughing) may result in decreasedN2O emissions during winter and spring season freeze-thaw cycles(Wagner-Riddle et al., 2017 ). However, more studies are needed to con ﬁrmthis mitigation opportunity.For anaerobic digestion of crop residues, high pressure or temperature(or additives) can limit the cost-effectiveness of pre-treatments of ﬁbre-rich biomass strongly, but combinations of treatments hold some promisefor future developments and should be explored ( Yu et al., 2019 ). Harvesttime and composition of (low-quality and high-quality) crop biomass foranaerobic digestion can improve biogas yield as well as nutrient availabilityand soil biodiversity after ﬁeld application ( Drost et al., 2020 ;Fontaineet al., 2020 ), and this may also be true without digestion ( Struijk et al.,2020 ). The consequences of these treatments for digestate biochemicalcomposition and associated effects on N 2O emissions after ﬁeld application,remain largely unknown.Cost-effective use of nitri ﬁcation inhibitors as a GHG mitigation strategywill require a better understanding of which conditions supportnitriﬁcation-dependent N 2O emissions. This will likely depend on residuecharacteristics such as C:N ratio and O 2demand, and on soil nitrate avail-ability and O 2supply. Some plant species can produce secondary metabo-lites that function as biological nitri ﬁcation inhibitors, althoughmechanisms are not clear and results mixed; mechanisms may involve ef-fects on N mineralization, as well as on nitri ﬁcation ( Pijlman et al.,2020 ). It is also not clear if such effects persist when plant residues ofcrops with ability to release biological nitri ﬁcation inhibitors are incorpo-rated ahead of a new growing season.Research should also consider possible means of reducing direct N 2Oemissions from immature residues. For example, immature residues canbe used as feedstock for protein extraction through biore ﬁning due totheir high N content, and the remaining residue fraction with increased C:N ratio could then be returned to the ﬁeld. However, the economic viabilityof this processes needs to be assessed. Another option would be to modifycrop biochemical characteristics either by breeding or with chemicals(e.g., using desiccants) so that immature residues senesce shortly before ter-mination ( Sylvester-Bradley et al., 2015 ). For cover crops, the strategy fortermination (i.e., mowing, herbicide) affects residue decomposition and Nmineralization ( Snapp and Borden, 2005 ), but the resulting effect on N2Oemissions deserves further research attention. We also need a better under-standing of how farmers actually manage crop residues, as this would allowfor living lab approaches.Unfolding how to manipulate interactions between different residues inplant mixtures to mitigate N 2O emissions may open a new research avenue.First, we need to design experiments under controlled conditions to in-crease our mechanistic understanding of how these interactions betweenD. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543888residues (i.e., nutrient transfer hypothesis, residue water retention, changesin microbial communities) may affect N 2O emissions, and to rank their rel-ative importance. Then, we will be able to translate these ﬁndings into real-isticﬁeld conditions to study the role of soil and environmental variables asregulators of residue interactions. Incorporating this information into crop,biogeochemical, process-based models (e.g., Daisy, APSIM, DNDC,DayCent, CoupModel, HERMES, ARMOSA, DSSAT, MONICA, WOFOST)is crucial to improve their capacity to predict the effect of crop residue man-agement on GHG emissions, and therefore to design sustainableagroecosystems under current and future climatic conditions.Soil texture is a broad proxy for several soil properties such as water re-tention, gas diffusivity or risk for nutrient leaching, and although at a globalscale the relationships between N 2O and soil clay content are consistent,several soil properties must be considered at a ﬁner scale (initial SOC con-tent, gas diffusivity) before providing policy recommendations regardingresidue incorporation or removal according to soil textural properties. Ifthe relationships prove to be robust, future studies can use digital soil map-ping (e.g., remote sensing, satellite imagery) to identify regional hotspotsfor N 2O emissions from crop residues, and to propose management prac-tices to minimize them. Similarly, the aridity index is effectively a proxyfor soil moisture content. However, the effect of AI and soil moisture onsoil C and N cycling is complex. Some studies have shown increases in AIto be positively correlated with soil C and N ( Delgado-Baquerizo et al.,2013 ), while other studies reported that increased soil moisture content de-creased soil C ( Mudge et al., 2021 ;Singh et al., 2021 ) and the soil C:N ratio(Mudge et al., 2021 ). The relevance of AI for land use recommendations toreduce N 2O emissions from crop residues may therefore depend on identi-fying more speci ﬁc values across the AI spectrum, driving the magnitude ofN2O emissions released from soils.More detailed, long-term ﬁeld studies are also needed to increase the ac-curacy to predict N 2O emissions from crop residues through arti ﬁcial intel-ligence, including machine learning approaches (e.g., random forest,stochastic gradient boosting modelling, arti ﬁcial neural networks; Panet al., 2021 ;Saha et al., 2021 ). Indeed, machine learning offers promiseto improve ﬁeld scale N 2Oﬂux predictions, especially when used in combi-nation with process-based models ( Saha et al., 2021 ). As the number ofavailable ﬁeld studies increases, we will be able to use more advanced sta-tistical tools to better understand the speci ﬁc conditions determining the ef-fectiveness of each mitigation practice for crop residue-derived N 2Oemissions, and the mechanisms behind them. Currently, the contributionof crop residues to national N 2O emissions represents a challenging emis-sion source to quantify accurately, and the methodology used in national in-ventories relies on ﬁxed emissions factors that do not capture the emissionreductions potentially achieved with the measures reported in our study(IPCC, 2019 ). Future increases in data availability will enable re ﬁnementsin crop residue emission accounting, incorporating effects of mitigationmeasures.5. ConclusionsBuilding upon a literature review and meta-analysis, we identi ﬁedpromising measures to reduce N 2Oe m i s s i o n sf r o mc r o pr e s i d u e sa n dassessed possible consequences of their implementation. Crop residueremoval, shallow incorporation, i ncorporation of residues with C:Nratio>30, and avoiding incorporation of immature crops, are effectiveN2O mitigation strategies at a genera l level. Practices related to cropresidue incorporation timing and interactions with fertilisers did notconsistently reduce N 2O emissions. This is due to the complex interac-tions between crop residue management, residue type, mineral N avail-ability regardless of the source, a nd the soil and climatic factorsregulating such emissions. Although the bene ﬁts of some mitigationmeasures clearly outweigh their po tential drawbacks, some measuresimply important trade-offs between N 2O mitigation and e.g., nitrateleaching or soil C storage. They are also in con ﬂict with some importantagroecological principles, such as increased use of immature crops(i.e., cover crops and grasslands) in arable cropping systems. Weidenti ﬁed additional strategies with potential to address thesechallenges, but requiring further research: residue conversion intobiochar or anaerobic digestate and ﬁeld application, co-applicationwith nitri ﬁcation inhibitors or N-immobilizing materials, and use ofcrop mixtures. A better understanding of these mitigation measuresmay pave the way for a more sustainable management of crop residuesin agroecosystems.CRediT authorship contribution statementDiego Abalos: conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis,writing - review &editing; Sylvie Recous: conceptualization, datacuration; writing - review &editing; Klaus Butterbach-Bahl: conceptuali-zation, review &editing; Chiara De Notaris : writing - review &editing;Tatiana Rittl: data curation, writing - review &editing; Cairistiona F. E.Topp: data curation, writing - review &editing; Søren O. Petersen: writ-ing - review &editing; Marina Bleken: writing - review &editing; RobertM. Rees: writing - review &editing; Sissel Hansen: conceptualization,writing - review &editing; Jørgen E. Olesen: project administration, con-ceptualization, writing - review &editing.Declaration of competing interestThe authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial inter-ests or personal relationships that could have appeared to in ﬂuence thework reported in this paper.AcknowledgementsThis study was supported by the FACCE ERA-GAS Cofund (EuropeanResearch Area –for mitigation of Greenhouse gases from Agri- andSilvi-culture; id number: 696356), project ResidueGas ( https://projects.au.dk/residuegas/ ). The Danish funding was received fromInnovation Fund Denmark (project 7108-00005B). The French fundingwas received from the Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR-17-EGAS-0003) and the National Institute for Food, Agriculture and theEnvironment (INRAE). The authors acknowledge funding in the UKfrom the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra)and the Scottish Government's Strategic Research Programme, and inGermany from the German Federal Ministry for Food and Agriculture(BMEL) [grant number 744 2817ERA08C]. The authors acknowledgefunding in Norway from the Research Council of Norway (ProjectNo.: 276389).Appendix A. Supplementary dataSupplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2022.154388 .ReferencesAbalos, D., Sanz-Cobena, A., Garcia-Torres, L., van Groenigen, J.W., Vallejo, A., 2013. Role ofmaize Stover incorporation on nitrogen oxide emissions in a non-irrigated Mediterraneanbarley ﬁeld. Plant Soil 364, 357 –371.Abalos, D., Jeffery, S., Sanz-Cobena, A., Guardia, G., Vallejo, A., 2014. Meta-analysis of the ef-fect of urease and nitri ﬁcation inhibitors on crop productivity and nitrogen use ef ﬁciency.Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 189, 136 –144.Abalos, D., van Groenigen, J.W., Philippot, L., Lubbers, I.M., De Deyn, G.B., 2019. Plant trait-based approaches to improve nitrogen cycling in agroecosystems. J. Appl. Ecol. 56,2454 –2466.Abalos, D., De Deyn, G.B., Philippot, L., Oram, N.J., Oudová, B., Pantelis, I., Clark, C., Fiorini,A., Bru, D., Mariscal-Sancho, I., Groenigen, J.W., 2021. Manipulating plant communitycomposition to steer ef ﬁcient N-cycling in intensively managed grasslands. J. Appl.Ecol. 58, 167 –180.Abalos, D., Rittl, T.F., Recous, S., Thiébeau, P., Topp, C.F.E., van Groenigen, K.J., Butterbach-Bahl, K., Thorman, R.E., Smith, K.E., Ahuja, I., Olesen, J.E., Bleken, M.A., Rees, R.M.,Hansen, S., 2022. Predicting ﬁeld N2O emissions from crop residues based on their bio-chemical composition: a meta-analytical approach. Sci. Total Environ. 812, 152352.Abdalla, M., Hastings, A., Cheng, K., Yue, Q., Chadwick, D., Espenberg, M., Truu, J., Rees,R.M., Smith, P., 2019. A critical review of the impacts of cover crops on nitrogenD. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 1543889leaching, net greenhouse gas balance and crop productivity. Glob. Chang. Biol. 25,2530 –2543.Agneessens, L., De Waele, J., De Neve, S., 2014. Review of alternative management options ofvegetable crop residues to reduce nitrate leaching in intensive vegetable rotations. Agron-omy 4, 529 –555.Alexander, M., 1977. Mineralization and immobilization of nitrogen. In: Alexander, M. (Ed.),Introduction to Soil Microbiology, 2nd edn. Wiley, New York, pp. 136 –247.Baggs, E.M., Rees, R.M., Smith, K.A., Vinten, A.J.A., 2000. Nitrous oxide emission from soilsafter incorporating crop residues. Soil Use Manag. 16, 82 –87.Baral, K.R., Labouriau, R., Olesen, J.E., Petersen, S.O., 2017. Nitrous oxide emissions and ni-trogen use ef ﬁciency of manure and digestates applied to spring barley. Agric. Ecosyst.Environ. 239, 188 –198.Bechmann, M.E., Bøe, F., 2021. Soil tillage and crop growth effects on surface and subsurfacerunoff, loss of soil, phosphorus and nitrogen in a cold climate. Land 10, 1 –15.Biederman, L.A., Harpole, W.S., 2013. Biochar and its effects on plant productivity and nutri-ent cycling: a meta-analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. Bioenergy 5, 202 –214.Blanco-Canqui, H., Lal, R., Owens, L.B., Post, W.M., Izaurralde, R.C., 2006. Corn stover im-pacts on near-surface soil properties of no-till corn in Ohio. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 70,266 –278.Borchard, N., Schirrmann, M., Cayuela, M.L., Kammann, C., Wrage-Mönnig, N., Estavillo,J.M., Fuertes-Mendizábal, T., Sigua, G., Spokas, K., Ippolito, J.A., Novak, J., 2019. Bio-char, soil and land-use interactions that reduce nitrate leaching and N2O emissions: ameta-analysis. Sci. Total Environ. 651, 2354 –2364.Brozyna, M.A., Petersen, S.O., Chirinda, N., Olesen, J.E., 2013. Effects of grass-clover manage-ment and cover crops on nitrogen cycling and nitrous oxide emissions in a stockless or-ganic crop rotation. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 181, 115 –126.B u t t e r b a c h - B a h l ,K . ,B a g g s ,E . M . ,D a n n e n m a n n ,M . ,K i e s e ,R . ,Z e c h m e i s t e r - B o l t e n s t e r n ,S., 2013. Nitrous oxide emissions from soils: how well do we understand the pro-cesses and their controls? Philos. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. Ser. B Biol. Sci. 368,20130122.Byrne, M.P., Tobin, J.T., Forrestal, P.J., Danaher, M., Nkwonta, C.G., Richards, K., Cummins,E., Hogan, S.A., O ’Callaghan, T.F., 2020. Urease and nitri ﬁcation inhibitors —As mitiga-tion tools for greenhouse gas emissions in sustainable dairy systems: a review. Sustain-ability 12, 6018.Cayuela, M.L., van Zwieten, L., Singh, B.P., Jeffery, S., Roig, A., Sánchez-Monedero, M.A.,2014. Biochar ’s role in mitigating soil nitrous oxide emissions: a review and meta-analysis. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 191, 5 –16.Chaves, B., De Neve, S., Cabrera, M.D.L., Boeckx, P., Van Cleemput, O., Hofman, G., 2005. Theeffect of mixing organic biological waste materials and high-N crop residues on the short-time N2O emission from horticultural soil in model experiments. Biol. Fertil. Soils 41,411 –418.Chaves, B., Opoku, A., De Neve, S., Boeckx, P., Van Cleemput, O., Hofman, G., 2006. Inﬂuenceof DCD and DMPP on soil N dynamics after incorporation of vegetable crop residues. Biol.Fertil. Soils 43, 62 –68.Chaves, B., Redin, M., Giacomini, S.J., Schmatz, R., Léonard, J., Ferchaud, F., Recous, S.,2021. The combination of residue quality, residue placement and soil mineral N contentdrives C and N dynamics by modifying N availability to microbial decomposers. Soil Biol.Biochem. 163, 108434.Chen, H.H., Li, X.C., Hu, F., Shi, W., 2013. Soil nitrous oxide emissions following crop residueaddition: a meta-analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. 19, 2956 –2964.Chen, B., Liu, E., Tian, Q., Yan, C., Zhang, Y., 2014. Soil nitrogen dynamics and crop residuesA review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 34, 429 –442.Chen, J., van Groenigen, K.J., Hungate, B.A., Terrer, C., van Groenigen, J.W., Maestre, F.T.,Ying, S., Luo, Y., Jørgensen, U., Sinsabaugh, R.L., Olesen, J.E., Elsgaard, L., 2020. Long-term nitrogen loading alleviates phosphorus limitation in terrestrial ecosystems. Glob.Chang. Biol. 26, 5077 –5086.Chen, X., Chen, H.Y.H., Chen, C., Ma, Z., Searle, E.B., Yu, Z., Huang, Z., 2020. Effects of plantdiversity on soil carbon in diverse ecosystems: a global meta-analysis. Biol. Rev. Camb.Philos. Soc. 95, 167 –183.Chowdhury, S., Farrell, M., Butler, G., Bolan, N., 2015. Assessing the effect of crop residue re-moval on soil organic carbon storage and microbial activity in a no-till cropping system.Soil Use Manag. 31, 450 –460.Congreves, K.A., Voroney, R.P., O ’Halloran, I.P., Van Eerd, L.L., 2013. Broccoli residue-derived nitrogen immobilization following amendments of organic carbon: an incubationstudy. Can. J. Soil Sci. 93, 23 –31.Cook, D.A., 2019. Systematic and nonsystematic reviews: choosing an approach. In: Nestel,D., Hui, J., Kunkler, K., Scerbo, M., Calhoun, A. (Eds.), Healthcare Simulation Research.Springer, Cham.Coppens, F., Garnier, P., Findeling, A., Merckx, R., Recous, S., 2007. Decomposition ofmulched versus incorporated crop residues: modelling with PASTIS clari ﬁes interactionsbetween residue quality and location. Soil Biol. Biochem. 39, 2339 –2350.Corrochano-Monsalve, M., Gonzalez-Murua, C., Bozal-Leorri, A., Lezama, L., Artetxe, B., 2021.Mechanism of action of nitri ﬁcation inhibitors based on dimethylpyrazole: a matter ofchelation. Sci. Total Environ. 752, 141885. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141885 .Davis, B.W., Mirsky, S.B., Needelman, B.A., Cavigelli, M.A., Yarwood, S.A., 2019. Nitrousoxide emissions increase exponentially with organic N rate from cover crops and appliedpoultry litter. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 272, 165 –174.De Notaris, C., Sørensen, P., Møller, H.B., Wahid, R., Eriksen, J., 2018. Nitrogen fertilizer re-placement value of digestates from three green manures. Nutr. Cycl. Agroecosyst. 112,355 –368.De Vries, J.W., Groenestein, C.M., De Boer, I.J.M., 2012. Environmental consequences of pro-cessing manure to produce mineral fertilizer and bio-energy. J. Environ. Manag. 102,173 –183.Decock, C., 2014. Mitigating nitrous oxide emissions from corn cropping systems in the mid-western U.S.: potential and data gaps. Environ. Sci. Technol. 48, 4247 –4256.Delgado-Baquerizo, M., Maestre, F.T., Gallardo, A., Quero, J.L., Ochoa, V., García-Gómez, M.,Escolar, C., García-Palacios, P., Berdugo, M., Valencia, E., Gozalo, B., Noumi, Z., Derak,M., Wallenstein, M.D., 2013. Aridity modulates N availability in arid and semiarid Med-iterranean grasslands. PLoS ONE 8, 2 –8.Don, A., Osborne, B., Hastings, A., Skiba, U., Carter, M.S., Drewer, J., Flessa, H., Freibauer, A.,Hyvönen, N., Jones, M.B., Lanigan, G.J., Mander, U., Monti, A., Djomo, S.N., Valentine,J., Walter, K., Zegada-Lizarazu, W., Zenone, T., 2012. Land-use change to bioenergy pro-duction in Europe implications for the greenhouse gas balance and soil carbon. Glob.Chang. Biol. Bioenergy 4, 372 –391.Drost, S.M., Rutgers, M., Wouterse, M., de Boer, W., Bodelier, P.L.E., 2020. Decomposition ofmixtures of cover crop residues increases microbial functional diversity. Geoderma 361,114060.Duan, Y.F., Kong, X.W., Schramm, A., Labouriau, R., Eriksen, J., Petersen, S.O., 2017. Micro-bial N transformations and N2O emission after simulated grassland cultivation: effects ofthe nitri ﬁcation inhibitor 3,4-dimethylpyrazole phosphate (DMPP). Appl. Environ.Microbiol. 83 (e02019 –16).EEA, 2020. Annual European Union Greenhouse Gas Inventory 1990 –2018 and Inventory Re-port 2020. European Environment Agency. Submission to the UNFCCC Secretariat.European Environmental Agency.FAO, 2021. FAOSTAT —FAO database for food and agriculture. Rome: Food and AgricultureOrganisation of United Nations (FAO). Available: http://www.fao.org/faostat/en/#data/GA .Fontaine, D., Feng, L., Labouriau, R., Møller, H.B., Eriksen, J., Sørensen, P., 2020. Nitrogenand sulfur availability in digestates from anaerobic co-digestion of cover crops, strawand cattle manure. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 20, 621 –636.Freschet, G.T., Aerts, R., Cornelissen, J.H.C., 2012. A plant economics spectrum of litter de-composability. Funct. Ecol. 26, 56 –65.Frøseth, R.B., Bakken, A.K., Bleken, M.A., Riley, H., Pommeresche, R., Thorup-Kristensen, K.,Hansen, S., 2014. Effects of green manure herbage management and its digestate frombiogas production on barley yield, N recovery, soil structure and earthworm populations.Eur. J. Agron. 52, 90 –102.Govaerts, B., Fuentes, M., Mezzalama, M., Nicol, J.M., Deckers, J., Etchevers, J.D., Figueroa-Sandoval, B., Sayre, K.D., 2007. Inﬁltration, soil moisture, root rot and nematode popula-tions after 12 years of different tillage, residue and crop rotation managements. Soil Till-age Res. 94, 209 –219.Gu, J., Nicoullaud, B., Rochette, P., Grossel, A., Henault, C., Cellier, P., Richard, G., 2013. Aregional experiment suggests that soil texture is a major control of N2O emissions fromtile-drained winter wheat ﬁelds during the fertilization period. Soil Biol. Biochem. 60,134 –141.Guenet, B., Gabrielle, B., Chenu, C., Arrouays, D., Balesdent, J., Bernoux, M., Bruni, E.,Caliman, J.-P., Cardinael, R., Chen, S., Ciais, P., Desbois, D., Fouche, J., Frank, S., Henault,C., Lugato, E., Naipal, V., Nesme, T., Obersteiner, M., Zhou, F., 2021. Can N2O emissionsoffset the bene ﬁts from soil organic carbon storage? Glob. Chang. Biol. 27, 237 –256.Gurr, G.M., Wratten, S.D., Luna, J.M., 2003. Multi-function agricultural biodiversity: pestmanagement and other bene ﬁts. Basic Appl. Ecol. 4, 107 –116.Handa, I.T., Aerts, R., Berendse, F., Berg, M.P., Bruder, A., Butenschoen, O., Chauvet, E.,Gessner, M.O., Jabiol, J., Makkonen, M., McKie, B.G., Malmqvist, B., Peeters, E.T.H.M.,Scheu, S., Schmid, B., van Ruijven, J., Vos, V.C.A., Hättenschwiler, S., 2014. Conse-quences of biodiversity loss for litter decomposition across biomes. Nature 509, 218 –221.Hansen, E.M., Djurhuus, J., 1997. Nitrate leaching as in ﬂuenced by soil tillage and catch crop.Soil Tillage Res. 41, 203 –219.Haruna, S.I., Nkongolo, N.V., 2015. Cover crop management effects on soil physical and bio-logical properties. Procedia Environ. Sci. 29, 13 –14.Hättenschwiler, S., Tiunov, A.V., Scheu, S., 2005. Biodiversity and litter decomposition in ter-restrial ecosystems. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 191 –218.Hedges, L.V., Gurevitch, J., Curtis, P.S., 1999. The meta-analysis of response ratios in experi-mental ecology. Ecology 80, 1150.Ho, A., Reim, A., Kim, S.Y., Meima-Franke, M., Termorshuizen, A., de Boer, W., van derPutten, W.H., Boderlier, P.L.E., 2015. Unexpected stimulation of soil methane uptake asemergent property of agricultural soils following bio-based residue application. Glob.Chang. Biol. 21, 3864 –3879.Hu, T., Sørensen, P., Olesen, J.E., 2018. Soil carbon varies between different organic and con-ventional management schemes in arable agriculture. Eur. J. Agron. 94, 79 –88.Hu, N., Chen, Q., Zhu, L., 2019. The responses of soil N2O emissions to residue returning sys-tems: a meta-analysis. Sustainability 11, 1 –17.Hütsch, B.W., Augustin, J., Merbach, W., 2002. Plant rhizodeposition –an important sourcefor carbon turnover in soils. J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 165, 397 –407.IPCC, 2019. Reﬁnement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Invento-ries. Switzerland.Isbell, F., Adler, P.R., Eisenhauer, N., Fornara, D., Kimmel, K., Kremen, C., Scherer-Lorenzen,M., 2017. Beneﬁts of increasing plant diversity in sustainable agroecosystems. J. Ecol.105, 871 –879.Jansson, C., Faiola, C., Wingler, A., Zhu, X.G., Kravchenko, A., de Graaff, M.A., Ogden, A.J.,Handakumbura, P.P., Werner, C., Beckles, D.M., 2021. Crops for carbon farming.FrontiersPlant Sci. 12.Janz, B., Havermann, F., Lashermes, G., Zuazo, P., Engelsberger, F., Torabi, S.M., Butterbach-Bahl, K., 2022. Effect of crop residue incorporation and crop residue properties on com-bined soil gaseous N2O, NO and NH3 emissions –a laboratory measurement approach.Sci. Total Environ. 807, 151051.K o n g ,X . ,D u a n ,Y . ,S c h r a m m ,A . ,E r i k s e n ,J . ,H o l m s t r u p ,M . ,L a r s e n ,T . ,e ta l . ,2 0 1 7 . Mit-igating N2O emissions from clover residues by 3,4-dimethylpyrazole phosphate(DMPP) without adverse effects on the earthworm lumbricus terrestris. Soil Biol.Biochem. 104, 95 –107.Köster, J.R., Cárdenas, L., Senbayram, M., Bol, R., Well, R., Butler, M., Mühling, K.H., Dittert,K., 2011. Rapid shift from denitri ﬁcation to nitri ﬁcation in soil after biogas residue appli-cation as indicated by nitrous oxide isotopomers. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 1671 –1677.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 15438810Krause, H.M., Hüppi, R., Leifeld, J., El-Hadidi, M., Harter, J., Kappler, A., Hartmann, M.,Behrens, S., Mäder, P., Gattinger, A., 2018. Biochar affects community composition of ni-trous oxide reducers in a ﬁeld experiment. Soil Biol. Biochem. 119, 143 –151.Kravchenko, A.N., Toosi, E.R., Guber, A.K., Ostrom, N.E., Yu, J., Azeem, K., Rivers, M.L.,Robertson, G.P., 2017. Hotspots of soil N2O emission enhanced through water absorptionby plant residue. Nat. Geosci. 10, 496 –500.Kravchenko, A.N., Fry, J.E., Guber, A.K., 2018. Water absorption capacity of soil-incorporatedplant leaves can affect N2O emissions and soil inorganic N concentrations. Soil Biol.Biochem. 121, 113 –119.Lashermes, G., Recous, S., Alavoine, G., Janz, B., Butterbach-Bahl, K., Ernfors, M., Laville, P.,2022. N2O emissions from decomposing crop residues are strongly linked to their initialsoluble fraction and early C mineralization. Sci. Total Environ. 806, 150883.Lees, H., 1946. Effect of copper-enzyme poisons on soil nitri ﬁcation. Nature 158, 97.Leimer, S., Oelmann, Y., Wirth, C., Wilcke, W., 2015. Time matters for plant diversity effectson nitrate leaching from temperate grassland. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 211, 155 –163.Li, X., Sørensen, P., Olesen, J.E., Petersen, S.O., 2016. Evidence for denitri ﬁcation as mainsource of N2O emission from residue-amended soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 92, 153 –160.Lickley, M., Solomon, S., 2018. Drivers, timing and some impacts of global aridity change. En-viron. Res. Lett. 13 (10).Liu, C., Lu, M., Cui, J., Li, B., Fang, C., 2014. Effects of straw carbon input on carbon dynamicsin agricultural soils: a meta-analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. 20, 1366 –1381.Liu, T., Chen, X.Y., Hu, F., Ran, W., Shen, Q., Li, H.X., Whalen, J.K., 2016. Carbon-rich organicfertilizers to increase soil biodiversity: evidence from a meta-analysis of nematode com-munities. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 232, 199 –207.Machado, P.V.F., Farrell, R.E., Deen, W., Voroney, R.P., Congreves, K.A., Wagner-Riddle, C.,2021. Contribution of crop residue, soil, and fertilizer nitrogen to nitrous oxide emissionsvaries with long-term crop rotation and tillage. Sci. Total Environ. 767, 145107.MacLeod, M., Eory, V., Gruère, G., Lankoski, J., 2015. Cost-effectiveness of greenhouse gasmitigation measures for agriculture: a literature review. OECD Food, Agriculture andFisheries Papers, No. 89. OECD Publishing, Paris.Majunder, S., Neogi, S., Dutta, T., Powel, M.A., Banik, P., 2019. The impact of biochar on soilcarbon sequestration: meta-analytical approach to evaluating environmental and eco-nomic advantages. J. Environ. Manag. 250, 109466.Malhi, S.S., Lemke, R., Wang, Z.H., Chhabra, B.S., 2006. Tillage, nitrogen and crop residue ef-fects on crop yield, nutrient uptake, soil quality, and greenhouse gas emissions. Soil Till-age Res. 90, 171 –183.Manzoni, S., Schimel, J.P., Porporato, A., 2012. Responses of soil microbial communities towater stress: results from a meta-analysis. Ecology 93, 930 –938.Mathew, I., Shimelis, H., Mutema, M., Minasny, B., Chaplot, V., 2020. Crops for increasing soilorganic carbon stocks –a global meta analysis. Geoderma 367, 114230.Merante, P., Dibari, C., Ferrise, R., Sánchez, B., Iglesias, A., Lesschen, J.P., Kuikman, P.,Yeluripati, J., Smith, P., Bindi, M., 2017. Adopting soil organic carbon management prac-tices in soils of varying quality: implications and perspectives in Europe. Soil Tillage Res.165, 95 –106.Mudge, P.L., Millar, J., Pronger, J., Roulston, A., Penny, V., Fraser, S., Eger, A., Caspari, T.,Robertson, B., Mason, N.W.H., Schipper, L.A., 2021. Impacts of irrigation on soil C andN stocks in grazed grasslands depends on aridity and irrigation duration. Geoderma399, 115109.Muhammad, I., Sainju, U.M., Zhao, F., Khan, A., Ghimire, R., Fu, X., Wang, J., 2019. Regula-tion of soil CO2 and N2O emissions by cover crops: a meta-analysis. Soil Tillage Res. 192,103 –112.Nair, D., Baral, K.R., Abalos, D., Strobel, B.W., Petersen, S.O., 2020. Nitrate leaching and ni-trous oxide emissions from maize after grass-clover on a coarse sandy soil: mitigation po-tentials of 3,4-dimethylpyrazole phosphate (DMPP). J. Environ. Manag. 260, 110165.Nett, L., Fuß, R., Flessa, H., Fink, M., 2015. Emissions of nitrous oxide and ammonia from asandy soil following surface application and incorporation of cauli ﬂower leaf residues.J. Agric. Sci. 153, 1341 –1352.Nett, L., Sradnick, A., Fuß, R., Flessa, H., Fink, M., 2016. Emissions of nitrous oxide and am-monia after cauli ﬂower harvest are in ﬂuenced by soil type and crop residue management.Nutr. Cycl. Agroecosyst. 106, 217 –231.Nguyen, Q.W., Wu, D., Kong, X., Bol, R., Petersen, S.O., Jensen, L.S., Liu, S., Brüggemann, N.,Glud, R.N., Larsen, M., Bruun, S., 2017. Effects of cattle slurry and nitri ﬁcation inhibitorapplication on spatial soil O2 dynamics and N2O production pathways. Soil Biol.Biochem. 114, 200 –209.O'Brien, P.L., Daigh, A.L.M., 2019. Tillage practices alter the surface energy balance –ar e -view. Soil Tillage Res. 195, 104354.Otsing, E., Barantal, S., Anslan, S., Koricheva, J., Tedersoo, L., 2018. Litter species richnessand composition effects on fungal richness and community structure in decomposing fo-liar and root litter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 125, 328 –339.Pan, B.B., Lam, S.K., Wang, E.L., Mosier, A., Chen, D.L., 2021. New approach for predictingnitriﬁcation and its fraction of N2O emissions in global terrestrial ecosystems. Environ.Res. Lett. 16, 034053.Paul, B.K., Lubbers, I.M., Van Groenigen, J.W., 2012. Residue incorporation depth is a control-ling factor of earthworm-induced nitrous oxide emissions. Glob. Chang. Biol. 18,1141 –1151.Petersen, S.O., Mutegi, J.K., Hansen, E.M., Munkholm, L.J., 2011. Tillage effects on N2O emis-sions as in ﬂuenced by a winter cover crop. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 1509 –1517.Pijlman, J., Berger, S.J., Lexmond, F., Bloem, J., van Groenigen, J.W., Visser, E.J.W., Erisman,J.W., van Eekeren, N., 2020. Can the presence of plantain (Plantago lanceolata L.) im-prove nitrogen cycling of dairy grassland systems on peat soils? N. Z. J. Agric. Res. 63,106 –122.Pinheiro, P.L., Recous, S., Dietrich, G., Weiler, D.A., Schu, A.L., Bazzo, H.L.S., Giacomini, S.J.,2019. N2O emission increases with mulch mass in a fertilized sugarcane cropping system.Biol. Fertil. Soils 55, 511 –523.Porre, R.J., van der Werf, W., De Deyn, G.B., Stomph, T.J., Hof ﬂand, E., 2020. Is litter decom-position enhanced in species mixtures? A meta-analysis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 145, 107791.Pugesgaard, S., Olesen, J.E., Jørgensen, U., Dalgaard, T., 2014. Biogas in organic agriculture-effects on productivity, energy self-suf ﬁciency and greenhouse gas emissions. Renew.Agric. Food Syst. 29, 28 –41.Putnam, A.R., DeFrank, J., 1983. Use of phytotoxic plant residues for selective weed control.Crop Prot. 2, 173 –181.Qasim, W., Xia, L., Lin, S., Wan, L., Zhao, Y., Butterbach-Bahl, K., 2021. Global greenhousevegetable production systems are hotspots of soil N2O emissions and nitrogen leaching:a meta-analysis. Environ. Pollut. 272, 116372.Qiao, C., Liu, L., Hu, S., Compton, J.E., Greaver, T.L., Li, Q., 2015. How inhibiting nitri ﬁcationaffects nitrogen cycle and reduces environmental impacts of anthropogenic nitrogeninput. Glob. Chang. Biol. 21, 1249 –1257.Qin, W., Hu, C., Oenema, O., 2015. Soil mulching signiﬁcantly enhances yields and water andnitrogen use ef ﬁciencies of maize and wheat: a meta-analysis. Sci. Rep. 5, 16210.Rasse, D.P., Rumpel, C., Dignac, M.-F., 2005. Is soil carbon mostly root carbon? Mechanismsfor a speci ﬁc stabilisation. Plant Soil 269, 341 –356.Rasse, D.P., Mulder, J., Moni, C., Chenu, C., 2006. Carbon turnover kinetics with depth in afrench loamy soil. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 70, 2097 –2105.Redin, M., Recous, S., Aita, C., Dietrich, G., Caitan, A., Hytalo, W., Schmatz, R., Jos, S., 2014.How the chemical composition and heterogeneity of crop residue mixtures decomposingat the soil surface affects C and N mineralization. Soil Biol. Biochem. 78, 65 –75.Rittl, T., Thiébeau, P., Recous, S., Rees, R., Abalos, D., Ahuja, I., Smith, K., Topp, C.F.E.,Ernfors, M., Bleken, M.A., Thorman, R., Pappa, V.A., Hansen, S., 2022. Secondary dataof N2O emissions associated with the return of crop residues from ﬁeld studies. OrganicEprints.Rochette, P., Worth, D.E., Lemke, R.L., McConkey, B.G., Pennock, D.J., Wagner-Riddle,C . ,D e s j a r d i n s ,R . L . ,2 0 0 8 . Estimation of N2O emissions from agricultural soils inCanada. I. Development of a country-speci ﬁc methodology. Can. J. Soil Sci. 88,641 –654.Ruser, R., Schulz, R., 2015. The effect of nitri ﬁcation inhibitors on the nitrous oxide (N2O) re-lease from agricultural soils —a review. J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 178, 171 –188.Saha, D., Basso, B., Robertson, G.P., 2021. Machine learning improves predictions of agricul-tural nitrous oxide (N2O) emissions from intensively managed cropping systems. Envi-ron. Res. Lett. 16, 024004.Senbayram, M., Chen, R., Budai, A., Bakken, L., Dittert, K., 2012. N2O emission and the N2O/(N2O + N2) product ratio of denitri ﬁcation as controlled by available carbon substratesand nitrate concentrations. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 147, 4 –12.Shakoor, A., Arif, M.S., Shahzad, S.M., Farooq, T.H., Ashraf, F., Altaf, M.M., Ahmed, W.,Tufail, M.A., Ashraf, M., 2021. Does biochar accelerate the mitigation of greenhouse gas-eous emissions from agricultural soil? - a global meta-analysis. Environ. Res. 202,111789.Shan, J., Yan, X., 2013. Effects of crop residue returning on nitrous oxide emissions in agricul-tural soils. Atmos. Environ. 71, 170 –175.Singh, S., Mayes, M.A., Shekoofa, A., Kivlin, S.N., Bansal, S., Jagadamma, S., 2021. Soil or-ganic carbon cycling in response to simulated soil moisture variation under ﬁeld condi-tions. Sci. Rep. 11, 10841.Six, J., Bossuyt, H., Degryze, S., Denef, K., 2004. A history of research on the link between(micro)aggregates, soil biota, and soil organic matter dynamics. Soil Tillage Res. 79,7–31.Skiba, U., Ball, B., 2002. The effect of soil texture and soil drainage on emissions of nitricoxide and nitrous oxide. Soil Use Manag. 18, 56 –60.Snapp, S.S., Borden, H., 2005. Enhanced nitrogen mineralization in mowed or glyphosatetreated cover crops compared to direct incorporation. Plant Soil 270, 101 –112.Sommer, S.G., Husted, S., 1995. The chemical buffer system in raw and digested animalslurry. J. Agric. Sci. 124, 45 –53.Spiess, E., Humphrys, C., Richner, W., Schneider, M.K., Piepho, H.P., Chervet, A., Prasuhn, V.,2020. Does no-tillage decrease nitrate leaching compared to ploughing under a long-termcrop rotation in Switzerland? Soil Tillage Res. 5, 104 –115.Stenberg, M., Aronsson, H., Lindén, B., Rydberg, T., Gustafson, A., 1999. Soil mineral nitrogenand nitrate leaching losses in soil tillage systems combined with a catch crop. Soil TillageRes. 50, 115 –125.Struijk, M., Whitmore, A.P., Mortimer, S.R., Sizmur, T., 2020. Obtaining more bene ﬁts fromcrop residues as soil amendments by application as chemically heterogeneous mixtures.Soil 6, 467 –481.Subbarao, G.V., Ito, O., Sahrawat, K.L., Berry, W.L., Nakahara, K., Ishikawa, T., Watanabe, T.,Suenaga, K., Rondon, M., Rao, I.M., 2006. Scope and strategies for regulation of nitri ﬁca-tion in agricultural systems challenges and opportunities. Crit. Rev. Plant Sci. 25,303 –335.Surey, R., Schimpf, C.M., Sauheitl, L., Mueller, C.W., Rummel, P.S., Dittert, K., Kaiser, K.,Böttcher, J., Mikutta, R., 2020. Potential denitri ﬁcation stimulated by water-soluble or-ganic carbon from plant residues during initial decomposition. Soil Biol. Biochem. 147,107841.Sylvester-Bradley, R., Thorman, R., Kindred, D., Wynn, S., Smith, K., Rees, R., Topp, C., Pappa,V., Mortimer, N., Misselbrook, T., Gilhespy, S., Cardenas, L., Chauhan, M., Bennett, G.,Malkin, S., Muro, D., 2015. Minimising Nitrous Oxide Intensities of Arable Crop Products(MIN-NO). Project Report No. 548.Taghizadeh-Toosi, A., Janz, B., Labouriau, R., Olesen, J.E., Butterbach-Bahl, K., Petersen, S.O.,2021. Nitrous oxide emissions from red clover and winter wheat residues depend oninteracting effects of distribution, soil N availability and moisture level. Plant Soil 466,121 –138.Thapa, R., Tully, K.L., Cabrera, M.L., Dann, C., Schomberg, H.H., Timlin, D., Reberg-Horton,C., Gaskin, J., Davis, B.W., Mirsky, S.B., 2021. Effects of moisture and temperature onC and N mineralization from surface-applied cover crop residues. Biol. Fertil. Soils 57,485 –498.Thomsen, I.K., Pedersen, A.R., Nyord, T., Petersen, S.O., 2010. Effects of slurry pre-treatmentand application technique on short-term N2O emissions as determined by a new non-linear approach. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 136, 227 –235.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 15438811Thomsen, I.K., Olesen, J.E., Møller, H.B., Sørensen, P., Christensen, B.T., 2013. Carbon dy-namics and retention in soil after anaerobic digestion of dairy cattle feed and faeces.Soil Biol. Biochem. 58, 82 –87.Tibbett, M., Fraser, T.D., Duddigan, S., 2020. Identifying potential threats to soil biodiversity.PeerJ 8, e9271.Tribouillois, H., Cohan, J.P., Justes, E., 2016. Cover crop mixtures including legume produceecosystem services of nitrate capture and green manuring: assessment combining exper-imentation and modelling. Plant Soil 401, 347 –364.Trinsoutrot, I., Recous, S., Bentz, B., Linères, M., Chèneby, D., Nicolardot, B., 2000. Biochem-ical quality of crop residues and carbon and nitrogen mineralization kinetics undernonlimiting nitrogen conditions. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 64, 918 –926.Ussiri, D.A.N., Lal, R., Jarecki, K., 2009. Nitrous oxide and methane emissions from long-termtillage under a continuous corn cropping system in Ohio. Soil Tillage Res. 104, 247 –255.Van Kessel, C., Venterea, R., Six, J., Adviento-Borbe, M.A., Linquist, B., Groenigen, K.J., 2013.Climate, duration, and N placement determine N2O emissions in reduced tillage systems:a meta-analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. 19, 33 –44.Verhoeven, E., Pereira, E.I., Decock, C., Suddick, E.C., Angst, T.E., Six, J., 2017. Toward a bet-ter assessment of biochar-nitrous oxide mitigation potential at the ﬁeld scale. J. Environ.Qual. 46, 237 –246.Viechtbauer, W., 2010. Conducting meta-analyses in R with the metafor. J. Stat. Softw. 36,1–48.Wagner-Riddle, C., Congreves, K.A., Abalos, D., Berg, A.A., Brown, S.E., Ambadan, J.T., Gao,X., Tenuta, M., 2017. Globally important nitrous oxide emissions from croplands inducedby freeze –thaw cycles. Nat. Geosci. 10, 279.Wang, J., Xiong, Z., Kuzyakov, Y., 2016. Biochar stability in soil: meta-analysis of decomposi-tion and priming effects. Glob. Chang. Biol. Bioenergy 8, 512 –523.Wardle, D.A., Nilsson, M.-C., Zackrisson, O., Gallet, C., 2003. Determinants of litter mixing ef-fects in a swedish boreal forest. Soil Biol. Biochem. 35 (6), 827 –835.Watson, C.A., Atkinson, D., Gosling, P., Jackson, L.R., Rayns, F.W., 2002. Managing soil fertil-ity in organic farming systems. Soil Use Manag. 18, 239 –247.Witzgall, K., Vidal, A., Schubert, D.I., Höschen, C., Schweizer, S.A., Buegger, F., Pouteau, V.,Chenu, C., Mueller, C.W., 2021. Particulate organic matter as a functional soil componentfor persistent soil organic carbon. Nat. Commun. 12, 4115.Xia, L., Lam, S.K., Wolf, B., Kiese, R., Chen, D., Butterbach-Bahl, K., 2018. Trade-offs betweensoil carbon sequestration and reactive nitrogen losses under straw return in globalagroecosystems. Glob. Chang. Biol. 24, 5919 –5932.Xu, C., Han, X., Ru, S., Cardenas, L., Rees, R.M., Wu, D., Wu, W., Meng, F., 2019. Crop strawincorporation interacts with N fertilizer on N2O emissions in an intensively croppedfarmland. Geoderma 341, 129 –137.Yu, Q., Liu, R., Li, K., Ma, R., 2019. A review of crop straw pretreatment methods for biogasproduction by anaerobic digestion in China. Renew. Sust. Energ. Rev. 107, 51 –58.Zhou, G., Cao, W., Bai, J., Xu, C., Zeng, N., Gao, S., Rees, R.M., 2019. Non-additive responsesof soil C and N to rice straw and hairy vetch (Vicia villosa Roth L) mixtures in a paddysoil. Plant Soil 436, 229 –244.D. Abalos et al. Science of the Total Environment 828 (2022) 15438812