EntryArbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in AgricultureThomas I. Wilkes/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046Citation: Wilkes, T.I. ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungi in Agriculture.Encyclopedia 2021 ,1, 1132–1154.https://doi.org/10.3390/encyclopedia1040085Academic Editor: Łukasz St˛ epie ´ nReceived: 3 September 2021Accepted: 28 October 2021Published: 2 November 2021Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2021 by the author.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).Centre for Environment, Society and Biosecurity, Alice Holt Lodge, Forest Research, Surrey GU10 4LH, UK;thomas.wilkes@forestresearch.gov.ukDeﬁnition: Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are biotrophic symbionts forming close relationshipswith an estimated 80% of terrestrial plants suitable as their host. Via an established AM fungal–host relationship, soil-bound nutrients are made available to the host plant through root corticalarbuscules as the site of exchange. At these sites, photosynthetic carbohydrates are provided to theAM fungus—carbohydrates that cannot be produced by the fungus. AM fungal–host symbiosis isvery sensitive to soil disturbance, for example, agricultural tillage practices can damage and reduceAM fungal abilities to interact with a host and provide plant growth-promoting properties.Keywords: arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi; conservational; glomalin; soil quality; sustainable;symbiosis; tillage1. IntroductionArbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi are symbiotic biotrophs that form close rela-tionships with a host plant via intracellular fungal structures, namely arbuscules, in rootcortical cells [ 1]. It is currently estimated that AM fungi began their associations with hostplants between 400 and 480 million years ago, contributing to the initial land colonisationby terrestrial plants. Approximately 80% of terrestrial plant species are in close symbioticrelations with AM fungi [ 2] for several plant-promoting properties, such as nutrient acqui-sition, increases in crop mass and yield, as well as reduced stress from abiotic pressures,e.g., soil salinity and drought [3].AM fungi contribute to soil structure, stability and function through increased growthand mass from a host’s root system. One way in which they contribute to this is fromthe production of glomalin [ 4,5], a glycoprotein, with soil adhesive properties betweenmicroaggregates [ 4,6]. Additionally, branching mycelial networks produce exploratoryhyphae through soil pores [ 7]. This exploration allows hyphae to wrap around glomalin-adhered microaggregates to form larger more stable macroaggregates, this also aids in thereduction of soil erosion by wind and water [ 8,9]. The management of soils, however, hasthe ability to preserve or damage AM fungal networks, their associations with a host plant,and their inﬂuences on soil properties [10].Tillage, as a method of seedbed preparation, can be detrimental to AM fungal–host re-lations and wider mycelial network establishment [ 11,12]. This is indicative of conventionaltillage (CT) which typically inverts soils to a maximum depth of 30 cm (20 cm within theUK [ 13]) forming the zone of tillage, with the formation of a densely compacted layer below(plough pan). Such a degree of soil inversion and disturbance breaks and homogeniseAM fungal mycelia through the zone of tillage [ 13] and negatively impacts AM fungal lifecycles by reducing the likelihood of AM fungi ﬁnding a host plant to form a symbioticestablishment, additionally seen in the use of excessive fertiliser use. This is a critical partof the AM fungal life cycle [ 14]. In contrast, zero tillage (ZT) does not invert or disturb soils.ZT practices utilise direct seed drilling. This method of land management is comparablymore conservative to AM fungal abundance [ 9,15]. However, ZT management strategiesare known for their employment of glyphosate as a means of weed removal as an alternatemethod to CT soil inversion [ 10]. Glyphosate was shown to be detrimental to AM fungiEncyclopedia 2021 ,1, 1132–1154. https://doi.org/10.3390/encyclopedia1040085 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/encyclopediaEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1133and their host crop interactions. Such disturbances to AM fungi, from both soil disturbanceand chemical interaction, interfere with the AM fungal life cycle.2. Life CycleThe process by which AM fungi form symbiotic relationships with a host plant is acritical part of their life cycle. Figure 1 shows the process of pre-symbiosis and symbiosisbetween AM fungi and a host root system.Encyclopedia  2021 , 1, FOR PEER REVIEW 3    Figure 1. Diagrammatic representation, based on the model organism Triticum aestivum  L., of the AM fungal life cycle through initial plant signalling ( a), spore germination ( b), and initial plant infection ( c) in pre-symbiosis. Following infec-tion, establishment of intracellular root cortical fungal structures ( d) establishes plant–fungus symbiosis. Extra radiating mycelia are also available for growth and development from further plant exudated compounds to establish multi-plant symbiosis ( e). Root arbuscules are not to scale with cortical cells.  Figure 2. ×1000 magnification of Vicker’s® microscope, from lab-controlled Zulu winter wheat growth showing AM fungal arbuscules (red), vesi cle (green), peri arbusc ular membrane (white arrow) and intracellular hyphae (ye llow arrow). Imaged with a Bresser® HD microscope camera and stained with Sheaffer® blue [27]. 3. Mycorrhizal–Host Nutrient Exchange Through the establishment of a host–AM fung us relationship (Figure 1d), soil nutri-ents can be provided to the host via intracel lular AM fungal arbuscules in exchange for photosynthetic carbohydrates.  Current estimates suggest 20% of photosynthetically ac-quired hexose carbohydrates are provided to AM fungi [28] across peri arbuscular mem-branes. Soil nutrient availability can alter the esta blishment of symbiosis. Soils deficient in nitrates produce plants with increased root exudation and encourage further AM fungal root colonisation and symbiosis [29]. The reverse is additionally true, soils high in nitrates Figure 1. Diagrammatic representation, based on the model organism Triticum aestivum L., of the AM fungal life cyclethrough initial plant signalling ( a), spore germination ( b), and initial plant infection ( c) in pre-symbiosis. Following infection,establishment of intracellular root cortical fungal structures ( d) establishes plant–fungus symbiosis. Extra radiating myceliaare also available for growth and development from further plant exudated compounds to establish multi-plant symbiosis(e). Root arbuscules are not to scale with cortical cells.2.1. Pre-SymbiosisThe production of root hormones and organic acid exudates from the host root systembegins during early seed germination and are the chemical signals deposited withinthe local soil environment [ 16]. Strigolactone, a root exudated plant hormone [ 17], isresponsible for the recruitment of AM fungi (Figure 1a). Strigolactone stimulates AMfungal spores within the soil to begin germination, develop and grow their mycelia in thedirection of the hormone-producing host plant (Figure 1b) [ 18]. Pre-symbiosis ends whenAM fungal mycelia come into direct contact with the host’s cell surface of the root cortexand form an appressorium (Figure 1c) [19].2.2. SymbiosisThe growth of hyphae through root structures, from the appressorium, marks thebeginning of the symbiotic relationship between the host plant and fungus. To establishthe relationship, intracellular arbuscules must be formed (Figure 1d), producing a largesurface area for nutrient exchange from fungal acquired soil nutrients provided to thehost [ 20]. Organelles of the plant cell must be modiﬁed in order to accommodate thearbuscule structure [ 21]. Hyphae begin to penetrate root cortical cells and the plant plasmamembrane invaginates [ 22]. The plant cell-penetrating hyphae, the “trunk”, continuesto branch whilst still enveloped by the plant cell membrane. After continued hyphalbranching, the plant plasma membrane becomes the peri arbuscular membrane (Figure 2)and is the site of nutrient exchange [ 23]. The peri arbuscular membrane is continuous withEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1134the plasma membrane of the root cell; however, regulation of plant DNA has transcribedmodiﬁed membrane proteins specialised for nutrient exchange [ 24]. Alteration of plantDNA regulation began once fungal hyphae penetrate the cortical cell [ 25] causing nontranscribed regions of the plant chromosomes to decondense.The mycelia of the main fungal body, branching into bulk soils will produce morespores (Figure 1e) for later germination from receiving exudated signals. Mycelia itself isable to continue growing towards plant hormone and exudate signals creating a furthersymbiosis with several other plants. When multi-plant symbiosis is created, it may involveseveral plant species rather than conforming to a single plant species. An example ofthis comes about from symbiosis with wheat crops and emerging weed plants. In casesof woodland soils and ectomycorrhizal fungi, multi-plant symbiosis was described as a“Wood Wide Web” [26].1   Figure 2. 1000 magniﬁcation of Vicker’s®microscope, from lab-controlled Zulu winter wheatgrowth showing AM fungal arbuscules (red), vesicle (green), peri arbuscular membrane (whitearrow) and intracellular hyphae (yellow arrow). Imaged with a Bresser®HD microscope camera andstained with Sheaffer®blue [27].3. Mycorrhizal–Host Nutrient ExchangeThrough the establishment of a host–AM fungus relationship (Figure 1d), soil nutrientscan be provided to the host via intracellular AM fungal arbuscules in exchange for photo-synthetic carbohydrates. Current estimates suggest 20% of photosynthetically acquiredhexose carbohydrates are provided to AM fungi [28] across peri arbuscular membranes.Soil nutrient availability can alter the establishment of symbiosis. Soils deﬁcient innitrates produce plants with increased root exudation and encourage further AM fungalroot colonisation and symbiosis [ 29]. The reverse is additionally true, soils high in nitratesreduce the overall AM fungal level of symbiosis. Further to this, studies were able to showthat nutrient-deﬁcient soils, producing higher levels of host–fungus interactions, result inmore carbon exchange via arbuscular structures giving strong indications that a mutualrelationship between plant and fungus exists through symbiosis [ 29,30]. However, nutrient-deﬁcient soils may be managed in an inappropriate manner, resulting in deteriorationof soils and lowering overall crop yields. An example of excessive fertiliser usage canbe seen from the application of nitrogen fertilisers. The soil microbiome has a myriadof enzymatic pathways able to digest applied nitrogen-containing compounds. Nitrousoxide can be produced in large quantities, resulting in the loss of nitrogen desired forcrop utilising as well as contributing to greenhouse gas emissions and algal blooms inproximity to waterways. Additionally, excessive applications of nitrogen fertilisers wereshown to reduce AM fungal biomass and their degree of symbiosis. Nitrogen fertilisersare an essential part of crop maintenance and yield outputs and cannot be removed fromarable management practices. However, assessing the quantity of applied nitrogen canEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1135reduce nitrogen loss to the atmosphere and increase the desired nutrient uptake via anestablished crop and their associated AM fungi.3.1. CarbonAM fungi require carbon compounds, in the form of carbohydrates, as part of theirlife cycle. They are, however, not able to produce the required carbohydrates alone. Thisbrings about the need to establish close relationships with a host to provide the neededcarbohydrates. Smith and Read [ 31] showed this can be achieved through indirect meansfrom increases in extraradical mycelia after a root has been colonised and forming asymbiosis with several plants at any one time. Wang et al. [ 6] produced an in-depth reviewof direct carbohydrate exchange from host to fungus. The movement of carbohydrates isregulated by the plant and, in part, by the fungus. Sucrose, the photosynthetically producedcarbohydrate, is transported to the root tissue via the phloem. Within these tissues, sucroseis cleaved into glucose and fructose [ 32] AM fungi do not prosses the ability to cleavesucrose to glucose and fructose, so must be performed via the host [ 6,33]. From carbon sinkstudies of Doidy et al. [ 34], it was shown that increases in root mycorrhizal colonisationcause the host plant to increase transported carbohydrates to root tissue. This increasein transported carbohydrates, however, still did not exceed 20% of the total producedphotosynthetic carbon of the host. From this, it can be drawn that host biomass and carbondioxide intake must increase to maintain the demands of both the plant and the symbioticAM fungi.Bonfante and Anca [ 24] showed changes in expressed membrane transporter proteinsfrom transcribed regions of DNA stimulated from fungal colonisation and arbuscularformation. Sucrose transporter membrane proteins, SUT, and monosaccharide transporters(MST) were shown to increase in fungal colonised root cells. However, these transportstructures were also seen to increase in the phloem, a region of root tissue that is not directlycolonised by AM fungi [ 6]. This, therefore, reinforces the notion of plant responses to AMfungal interactions being whole plant rather than a localised phenomenon. From carbohy-drate exchange in root tissues, carbohydrates must be transported from intraradical myceliato extraradical mycelia for the continued growth and development of branching hyphaeand spores in soils. To achieve this, plant-provided sugars are enzymatically converted intolipids, the main carbon storage molecule in AM fungi [ 35], stored within vesicles foundwithin root tissues [ 27]. Bago et al. [ 32] found the conversion of carbohydrates to lipids,back to carbohydrates, was only 50% efﬁcient.3.2. NitrogenThe supply of nitrogen in soils, without fertiliser application, is known to be a plantgrowth-limiting factor [ 36]. Many studies involving the provision of nitrogen favourmethodologies of labelled N15. Johansen et al. [ 37] were one of many that followedlabelled nitrogen from the soil, absorbed into extra radiating mycelia and incorporationinto amino acids via the glutamine synthetase, glutamine oxoglyutarate aminotransferase(GS/GOGAT) cycle in the formation of arginine [6].AM fungi are able to transfer organic nitrogen, NO 3 and NH 4+, to host plants andalso increase soil organic nitrogen through organic matter decomposition [ 38]. From N15labelled soil nitrate sources, it was shown that 21% of extra radiating mycelial sourcednitrogen was exchanged within root structures [ 39]. It was then later shown that between30–50% of fungal acquired nitrogen was exchanged at root sites, with an estimated 75%reaching leaf tissue [ 40,41]. Govindarajulu et al. [ 41] were able to show the movementof arginine to intra-radiating mycelia and its breakdown into urea and ornithine. Theutilisation of urea during breakdown produces ammonia gas and contributes to nitrogenloss from soils. However, most ammonia is released into the plant across arbuscularexchange sites, where ammonium transporters in AM fungi (GintAMT1, GintAMT2, andGintAMT3 in R. irregularis ) are expressed in established symbiosis [ 42]. These transportstructures are further expressed under low nitrogen conditions to facilitate further nitrogenEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1136transport, as well as AM fungal mediated acceleration of organic matter decomposition [ 43].This strongly supports reductions in symbiosis from higher soil nitrogen levels. Branchesof the arbuscular structure were found to express GmAMTH.1 and ATM2;3 on the periarbuscular membrane rather than the “trunk” of the mycelia [ 44]. This indicates arbusculebranches are the site of nitrogen transfer.3.3. PotassiumPotassium is the most abundant element within the soil’s composition [ 45], however,potassium has low availability towards plants and is a growth-limiting factor. Potassiumalso plays a crucial role in several plant functions, including membrane polarisation, plantgrowth, stomatal aperture functionality, as well as a plant’s environmental adaptation [ 46].Via particle-induced X-ray emission studies [ 30,47], accumulation of potassium in AMfungi were seen in mycelia, vesicles and spores. Potassium transporter channels from AMfungi to the host plant are still under investigation with only four known transports; threeSKC-type transport and one KT/KUP/HAK transporter [ 45,48]. Potassium, originatingfrom AM fungi, was shown to increase plant stress tolerances, especially in responseto salinity [ 49]. However, little is known regarding the mechanism of increased stresstolerance or the physiological pathway [45,50,51].3.4. PhosphorusPhosphorus is a major plant nutrient and is provided to a host by AM fungal branch-ing mycelia, increasing soil uptake surface area of phosphorus, in the form of inorganicphosphate, in exchange for photosynthetic carbon across the peri arbuscular membrane(Figure 2 ). Phosphorus transport was shown to be induced from the establishment ofsymbiosis from manipulation of the Pht1 family of genes responsible for phosphate trans-port [ 52–54]. High levels of soil phosphate were shown to reduce gene transcription forstrigolactone production [ 55] indicating reductions in symbiosis from excess soil nutrients.This was also identiﬁed from calcium spiking inhabiting pre symbiosis pathways [ 56].Overall, this results in reduced translocation of other nutrients, via AM fungal mycelia,and potential reduction to soil quality [44,45,56].3.5. Fatty AcidsFatty acids and fatty-acid-derived lipids are crucial components of all living cells.Plant-derived fatty acids are comprised of carbon chains 16 or 18 carbon atoms long with1 to 3 double bonds throughout the molecule [ 57]. These were shown to increase in AMfungi following the onset of established symbiosis [ 58], with 16 carbon chain fatty acidsbeing detected and quantiﬁed, via labelled C13methodologies [ 59], within intracellulararbuscules and vesicles and absent within extra-radiating mycelial and fungal spores [ 60].Further studies were able to indicate the internal transport of acquired lipids via fungalhyphae and its utilisation as a carbon source for the development of further mycelia growthand spore development [ 60,61]. Subsequently, 95% of spore dry weight was determined tobe fatty acids, along with 47% of hyphal volume in extra-radiating mycelia and 58% dryweight of intracellular vesicles in the host root cortex [62,63].Feng et al. [ 59] describe lipid transfer from the host plant to AM fungus during abioticstress and are able to show the reduction of lipid transfer under these conditions and theeventual collapse of arbuscular structures following reductions in lipid transfer resultingfrom the decreased regulation of lipid transfer genes for adenosine triphosphate (ATP)binding cassette (ABC) transporter stunted arbuscule (STR) and STR2. ABC, STR and STR2are located within the peri-arbuscular membrane and are a critical component of early, andmaintained, establishment of host–fungal symbiosis and have specialised functionality forthe transport of host plant-derived lipids [64].Genome and transcriptome analysis of AM fungi have revealed the absence of fattyacid synthesis genes in model AM fungi; including, Rhizophagus irregularis, Gigasporamargarita, and Gigaspora rosea [65,66]. However, AM fungi do possess enzymatic pathwaysEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1137to allow the elongation of plant-derived fatty acids [ 59]. This provides an example of thebiotrophic nature of AM fungi and their dependence on a host.3.6. SulphurSulphur is an essential element required for plant growth and is becoming increasinglylimited due to atmospheric sulphur rapidly reducing in concentration [ 67]. Soil sulphur istypically bound within soil organic matter in the form of sulphate esters and sulphonate.As with other forms of bound nutrients, sulphur is not directly available to a developingcrop and requires constituents of the rhizosphere microbiome to enzymatically digestbound sulphur, making sulphur more available to the host crop [ 68,69]. Once plants areable to utilise sulphur, it enters several metabolic mechanisms producing metabolites suchas cystine, methionine, glutathione, biotin, chlorophyll, and co-enzyme A, all of which arecomponents of critical physiological pathways [70].AM fungi, via their large branching mycelial network through soils and associatedlarge surface area, were shown to take up soil sulphur and transport it to their hostcrop. However, studies have shown AM fungal-mediated crop growth beneﬁts in maize(Zea mays ), tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ), and clover ( Trifolium spp.), with other croptypes still under investigation and expanding on current understanding [ 68,70]. Allenand Shachar-Hill [ 71] and Buchner et al. [ 72] studied Glomus intraradicies with carrot(Daucus carota subsp. sativus ) root and were able to show the translocation of sulphatefrom AM fungi to host, concluding sulphur provisions to a host crop were limited and onlyoccurred at the upregulation of the host. This further comes about from the AM fungalmediated upregulation of sulphur transporters within the peri arbuscular membrane inresponse to plant exudation as a communications pathway towards AM fungi.Whilst AM fungal sulphur translocation provides a host crop, bacterial communitiessurrounding AM fungal extra-radiating mycelia contribute to the breakdown of soil-boundsulphur, making further sulphur accessible for AM fungi to absorb and transfer to ahost [69,73,74]. This is an example of a tripartite relationship between AM fungi, bacteria,and crops.3.7. MicronutrientsMicronutrients are essential elections required by any organism for growth, develop-ment, and reproduction. Examples of micronutrients in arable crops are copper, iron zinc,manganese, and cobalt [75]. Plants utilise copper and iron in redox reactive physiologicalmechanisms as co-enzymes and co-factors, whilst zinc has a structural support role in plantprotein [ 76]. However, such micronutrients are also classed as heavy metals and, in highconcentrations, lead to reactive oxygen species likely to damage plant cells [ 77]. Othermetals, such as mercury, lead, and cadmium, and metalloids such as arsenic, are toxic toplants and inhibit growth, development, preproduction and crop yield [78].AM fungi, whilst having been studied for nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassiumnutrient exchange, also increase micronutrient uptake of their host [ 79]. In the absenceof AM fungi, micronutrients are poorly mobile in soil. Schu ler and Walker [ 80] usedcompartmentalised soil pot systems to investigate the micronutrient mobility effects ofextra-radiating mycelia of Funneliformis mossae , from cucumber ( Cucumis sativus ) roots,through soil pores. Schu ler and Walker [ 80] showed AM fungi contributed 75% of thetotal copper uptake in cucumber. Metanalysis of AM fungal copper provision has shown asigniﬁcantly positive contribution to sopper host nutrition [81,82].Zinc homeostasis is attributed to two transporter families, zinc-ion permease (ZIP) andcation diffusion facilitation (CDF). Currently, CDP has been reported within three speciesof AM fungi, Rhizophagus irregularis, Hebeloma cylindrosporum, and Oidiodendron maius [83].However, AM fungal zinc acquisition from soils is dependant on soil phosphorus concen-trations, as increases in zinc uptake are proportional to phosphorus acquisition [ 83] underlow soil phosphorus. Jansa et al. [ 84] studied zinc and phosphorus translocation throughAM fungal extra-radiating mycelia of R. irregularis from zinc-65 and phosphorus-33 iso-Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1138topes, showing AM fungi can translocate zinc and phosphorus through 14 cm of mycelianetworks to a host plant. However, increases in soil zinc reduce AM fungal mediated zincacquisition whilst having no inﬂuence on crop zinc contents. In contrast, low soil zinc in-creased AM fungal zinc acquisition. This is an example of AM fungal–host communicationand regulation of nutrient requirements.4. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi and Soil StructureAM fungal mycelia extend into bulk soils, primarily in the search of nutrient sourcesto acquire for plant growth in exchange for photosynthetic carbohydrates [ 32]. However,soil structure beneﬁts from the extensions of mycelia from the formation of more stabilisedsoil macroaggregates from microaggregates formed from the presence of glomalin alongthe length of the fungal mycelia as an addition to structural support [ 85]. Through theimprovement to soil stability, and reduction in wind and water erosion coming about fromthis, soil quality is also improved. A plot experiment by Li et al. [ 86] further explored thisfrom soil inoculants of AM fungi and found increased aggregate stability and maintenanceof a neutral soil pH. This is an example of how soil inoculants of AM fungi improve soilphysical attributes, aggregation, through biological means, is key cooperation that deﬁnessoil quality [ 86,87]. The presence of glomalin is additionally a key component of AM fungalcontribution to the improvement of soil quality.Soil GlomalinAM fungi are associated with the production of the soil glycoprotein glomalin [1,5,6,85–93] .Of the 250 species of known AM fungi, an estimated 90% of all species are capable ofproducing glomalin [ 94]. Glomalin produces improvements to soil microaggregates andleads to reductions in soil erosion [ 95]. Improvements to microaggregates can also be seenfrom the presence of fungal mycelia that physically bind soil aggregates together. Glomalinhas adhesive properties between soil aggregates and particulates, whilst being comprisedof an estimated 30–40% carbon, 3–5% nitrogen, 4–6% hydrogen, 30–50% oxygen, 0.03–0.1%phosphorus and 0.8–8.8% iron [ 96]. Following this, Glomalin Related Soil Protein (GRSP)comprises a large proportion of soil organic matter (SOC) [ 88], which is very stable [ 1].GRSP is determined via the Bradford assay and is also referred to as Bradford reactivesoil proteins (BRSP) [ 15,58,63]. Whilst this method is advantageous for large-scale ﬁeldinvestigations into soil glomalin at a lower cost, antibody assays are able to more reliablydetermine the presence and abundance of soil glomalin. The drawback to an antibodyassay is the cost and greater degree of required skill set to perform the assay. For large-scaleﬁeld studies, a glomalin antibody assay is not always feasible and the Bradford assay isemployed. It should be noted, however, the presence of humic acid in the extractant of theBradford assay was shown to interfere with photospectrometry quantiﬁcation of glomalinand can lead to results with reduced reliability, emphasising the need for a greater degreeof sample replicates [ 4,85,89]. Some studies have estimated that glomalin contributes 5%of the total SOC measured within a soil sample [ 88], with a range of longevity in soilsbetween 7 and 42 years [ 4]. Glomalin’s ability to remain in soils for several decades comesabout from the water-insoluble characteristics and resistance to heat degradation fromstructural similarities to heat shock protein [ 5]. Further studies have additionally beenable to show that increases in atmospheric carbon dioxide can produce increases in soilglomalin concentrations [ 6,51]. This is thought to occur from the photosynthetically ﬁxedcarbon, in the form of carbohydrates, being transported to root systems and provided tothe present symbiotic fungi [ 97]. From the provided plant acquired carbohydrates, AMfungi utilise this as a source of carbon and produce glomalin [ 90,97]. Glomalin has theadded function of structural support for fungal mycelia [ 85], but can be damaged andbroken by the application of land management practices such as CT. This had negativeconnotations for soil quality from the reductions of soil aggregation leading to increasedsoil erosion from water and wind.Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 11395. TillageThrough the application of invasive conventional land management practices, such asCT, there is a building body of evidence to suggest the inability of AM fungi to survive thehomogenisation and aeration of a soil proﬁle [ 98]. Kabir [ 99] identiﬁed that the employmentof intensive tillage practices is a major reducing factor of AM fungal abundance anddiversity, with a later warning from Sosa-Hermandez et al. [ 98] to move away from suchintensive practices. Sale et al. [ 100] investigated the diversity and abundance of AM fungivia soil spore analysis to a depth of 40 cm from reduced tillage (RT) and CT systems. Theirﬁndings supported the work of Kabir [ 99] showing a reduction in abundance and diversityfrom the application of an invasive soil management regime. However, Sale et al. [ 100] alsowere able to show that the diversity of abundance of AM fungi was greater in soils deeperthan 40 cm. Within the UK, CT typically inverts soil to a maximum depth of 20 cm [ 13] butcan invert soils to a maximum depth of 30 cm with a plough pan found between 30–40 cmdeep. Findings of Kabir [ 99] and Sale et al. [ 100] support the notion of CT having negativeimplications for the damage and breaking of a soil AM fungal community, reducing thesymbiotic nature of AM fungi. A potential solution for this is to manage soils through azero tillage (ZT) practice, a practice that removed the mycelial damaging soil inversion.Compared with soil inversions of CT, ZT has very little to no soil disturbance. A possibledrawback of a ZT system is an increase in soil bulk density, use of agrochemicals for weedcontrol and the reduced mobility of nutrients and fertilisers through a soil proﬁle [98].Table 1 produces a comparison between tillage types and their impacts on soil. Fromthe management of soils, resultant of CT, soil aggregation is reduced and leads to increasesin soil erosion by means of wind and water [ 101]. Whereas in ZT soils, reduction of erosionand aggregation is seen. From improved aggregation, the decomposition of crop residue isprotected [ 102], whilst having an additional beneﬁt of improving soil aggregation [ 103].Crittenden et al. [ 104] investigated the importance of tillage management on the stability ofsoil aggregates and found soil organic carbon (SOC) serves to increase aggregation, whilstSheehy et al. [ 105] were able to show SOC has greater aggregate stabilising properties formacroaggregates and should be used as an indicator for carbon loss resultant of tillagemanagement practices. Through a series of longer-term experiments, improvements ofZT were seen to increase microaggregates and improvements to total SOC levels [ 106].This leads to reductions in soil erosion from wind and water, with reductions from carbondioxide emissions additionally seen.Table 1. Summary of select tillage types and their associated mechanical impact characteristics upon soils and arbuscularmycorrhizal (AM) fungi [107–112].Tillage Type Equipment Employed Tillage Characteristics Impact on Soil and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal FungiConventional Mouldboard plough Maximum 30 cmsoil inversion Loosens and aerates soil Buries crop residue fromprevious crop Reduces AM fungal abundance and diversity Increase in soil erosion Reduce soil carbon and increase carbondioxide emissions Increases in soil aeration Reduction of soil bulk density in zone of tillage Reduces weeds Reduces select fungal pathogensReduced Rotary disc Maximum 15 cmsoil disturbance Reduced soil erosion compared toconventional tillage Not always effective against weed reductionEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1140Table 1. Cont.Tillage Type Equipment Employed Tillage Characteristics Impact on Soil and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal FungiStripSpecialist equipment Disk opener Coulter Maximum 15 cmsoil disturbance Only soils to be drilledare disturbed Soil drying effect ofconventional tillage Weed reduction can be difﬁcult More passes of heavy equipment may berequired Removal of a cover crop may be difﬁcult Aerates top soil Soil carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus are lowerthan zero tillageZero Direct seed drill Direct seed drilling intotop soil Little to no soildisturbance Not suitable for soilswith poor waterdrainage Crop residue remains onsurface of soil Increases AM fungal abundance and diversity Decreases in soil erosion Increase soil carbon Increase in soil bulk density Increase in select fungal pathogens Agrochemicals required to reduce weeds5.1. Tillage and AM FungiAM fungal mycelia act as the primary inoculum of host plant roots [ 113]. Applyingtillage to soils breaks the delicate mycelial networks [ 114]. Applying CT levels of soilinversion homogenises a maximum depth of 30 cm, 20 cm typical in the UK, dramaticallydiluting broken mycelia across depths that AM fungi may struggle to survive due toreduced oxygen content of soils towards anaerobic conditions [ 115]. The dilution of myceliacauses delays in root colonisation [ 116] as the network of hyphae needs to redevelop.Additionally, reduced levels of resources will be available to the fragments of myceliaand can result in the death of many mycelial fragments further reducing the amount ofAM fungi in CT soils [ 117]. Furthermore, this has negative detrimental implications forsoil aggregation. AM fungi can be found in soils low in oxygen, however, are found insymbiosis with a host plant and able to utilise plant-derived resources [118].ZT practices do not damage the mycelial networks in top soils (<10 cm) allowing themto remain intact and able to begin root colonisation for host–fungal symbiosis [6]. Studiesby Galvez et al. [ 119] and Sharma-Poudyal et al. [ 120] are able to show agricultural landmanagement practices of a more conservation orientation, away from CT, have positivegrowth implications for soil fungi in both abundance and diversity. Sharma-Poudyalet al. [ 120], via molecular identiﬁcation methods, speciﬁcally names Humicola, Cryptococcus,Cadophora and Hydondontaceae as being more abundant in ZT practices compared to CTsampled soils. Whilst these are part of a wider soil microbiome, they are not howeverclassiﬁed as AM fungi.Through the work of many others, the reduction of a diverse soil fungal communitywas reported [ 24,85,121]. This focuses primarily on fungal biomass within soils. Anexample of a fungal biomass marker, used for biomass estimations, comes about fromergosterol. Ergosterol acts as a cell membrane stabilising and support molecule in a similarway to the functions of cholesterol in mammalian cell membranes [ 122]. Biosynthesis ofergosterol has high demands on AM fungal metabolism but is offset by ergosterol’s abilityto enable the fungus to withstand climatic conditions and variances [123].5.2. Tillage, Glomalin and Soil ErosionAn increasing body of research exists for the effects of tillage on WSA via tillageimplications to glomalin. With increases in soil glomalin, soil aeration and drainage areimproved along with stable aggregates. Wilson et al. [ 124] noted high correlations betweensoil aggregation and carbon sequestration with increases in AM fungal abundance. Love-lock et al. [ 88] produced estimates of between 3% and 5% of soil carbon and nitrogen,Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1141respectively, being attributed to glomalin. Hontoria et al. [ 125] studied differences betweenCT and ZT systems in respect to WSA and extractable, Bradford reactive, glomalin. Honto-ria et al. [ 125] were able to show ZT had nearly a third higher stabilised soil aggregatesand three to ﬁve times more extractable glomalin.Shariﬁ et al. [ 96] produce experimental rationale that glomalin had a greater inﬂuenceon improved soil aggregation than organic matter contents. Additionally, Shaﬁri et al. [ 68]were able to show a positive correlation between glomalin and WSA. This was also shownearlier by Curaqueo et al. [ 126]. Whilst tillage does inﬂuence the amount of glomalin withinsoils, the plant species to which host AM fungi alter the quantity of glomalin depositedin soils. Therefore, crop type can improve or reduce initial glomalin levels, and relate tochanges in WSA. However, the application of tillage can reduce glomalin through microbialmetabolism. This not only reduces soil carbon but reduces aggregate adhesion leading toincreases in soil erosion.Nautiyal et al. [ 127] studied the inﬂuence of glomalin in regards to its contributionto soil carbon stores and was able to show a signiﬁcant positive relationship with organiccarbon contents of soils ( p< 0.001) and aggregate stability. This conforms to the “glue”description of glomalin, by Wright and Upadhyaya [ 4], acting on soil aggregates aidingin the formation of macroaggregates from microaggregates. Whilst the reported ﬁndingsof Nautiyal et al. [ 127] are important, Nautiyal et al. [ 127] are unable to consider theeffects of tillage and land management practices on the quantities of glomalin in soils andalterations to glomalin’s adhesive properties. However, Sheehy et al. [ 105] produces directcomparisons between soil aggregates of three tillage practices (conventional, reduced andzero-till) and is able to give clear indications that zero-till practices maintain a greaterproportion of macroaggregates, contribution to more stable soils and erosion resistant, thansoil aggregates in conventional till. Sheehy et al. [ 105] additionally commented on thepercentages of soil organic matter between the tillage practices and noted zero-till to havegreater soil carbon when compared to conventional and reduced till with conventional tillhaving the lowest quantiﬁable soil carbon. Ample literature is able to comment and explorethe effects of tillage on soil aggregation or soil carbon stores between differing types ofapplied tillage, however, very few studies were able to comment and produce rationaleregarding the direct inﬂuence of tillage against glomalin and how such an inﬂuence relatesto soil aggregation with potential suggestions for which tillage practice produces thegreatest beneﬁts to overall soil quality. Sharifﬁ et al. [ 96] explored the relationship betweenglomalin and tillage or ﬁre land management in the Zagros forests of Iran. The tillage depthof Sharifﬁ et al. [ 96] is equivalent to CT in European countries. However, Sarifﬁ et al. [ 96]were unable to comment on the effects of such agricultural practices on soil aggregates butwere able to conclude that applying tillage to soils did reduce the amount of quantiﬁableglomalin with it the system. Wright et al. [ 128] produced one of the few studies that makeattempts at comparing tillage, glomalin and aggregate stability of soils. The results ofWright et al. [ 128] indicate ZT was constantly supported increased quantities of glomalinand soul aggregates compared with CT-treated soils. However, the presented data doesnot give clear indications that there is a largely signiﬁcant difference between ZT and CTtreatments through the data transformation of glomalin to total soil carbon ratios. This islargely contradictory to much of the other literature that has indicated greater differencesbetween NT and CT soil aggregates and glomalin. An example of such is the study byHontoria et al. [ 125]. The study area from Hontoria et al. [ 125] utilises olive groves incentral Spain and is difﬁcult to directly compare with the majority of literature that hasfocused upon arable cereal cultivation. Hontoria et al. [ 25], whilst concluding glomalinhad a positive inﬂuence on soil aggregation, were not able to produce data with statisticalsupport to justify such a conclusion, leaving the connection between glomalin, tillage andsoil aggregates still under question and requiring further investigation.Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 11426. AM Fungi and AgrochemicalsAgrochemicals, such as herbicides, pesticides and fungicides, were used in arableagriculture for several decades with increasing intensity in aims to increase crop yieldsand productivity [ 11], as well as soil nutrients to sustain the increasing demand on foodproduction [ 129]. The literature describes the inﬂuence of agrochemicals and fertilisers onhuman health and other mammals, birds and ﬁsh [ 129,130]. However, the soil microbiomeis typically not explored and considered to the same degree in respect to agrochemicalapplications. Agrochemicals have speciﬁc effects upon their desired targets; for example,glyphosate herbicide reduces weed populations in ZT arable systems rather than invertedsoils accomplishing a similar effect in CT management [ 131]. Glyphosate, however, ad-ditionally has unforeseen consequences upon the soil microbiome as some constituentspecies within the microbiome are non-target organisms (NTO) [132].Glyphosate (phosphomethyl glycine) inhibits the enzyme 5-endopyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate (EPSP) synthase within growing weeds [ 11,133,134]. EPSP synthase is acomponent of the Shikimate pathway in the synthesis of tryptophan, phenylalanime, andtyrosine amino acids [ 11,134]. Tryptophan and phenylalanine amino acids are crucial com-ponents in the production of auxins and ﬂavonoids, while tyrosine metabolites are criticalfor plant survival [ 133]. The Shikimate pathway and EPSP synthase are also found withinsome bacterial and fungal species as well as targeted plant species [ 135,136]. Glyphosate istypically short-lived in soils, approximately 24 days (Figure 3) [ 130] from adsorption ontosoil particles [ 137], this increases the duration of glyphosate persistence in soil extendingthe period when the impact on NTO may be realised [ 138]. Aminomethylphosphonic acid(AMPA), a metabolite of glyphosate, persists within the environment for longer, shown inFigure 3, and has superior mobility within soils [ 130]. Giesy et al. [ 139], in an extension oftheir study of glyphosate ecotoxicity and NTOs to AMPA, found that AMPA is equally astoxic to NTOs as glyphosate. Evidently, the greater persistence, mobility and comparableecotoxicity of AMPA is of greater concern to bacteria and fungi that share the Shikimatepathway and EPSP synthase [ 139,140], both of which are targeted by glyphosate whenapplied as a mode of weed control.Encyclopedia  2021 , 1, FOR PEER REVIEW 12    Figure 3. Timeline of glyphosate metabolism and Am inomethylphosphonic ac id (AMPA) persis-tence in soils from both field soils ( a) and laboratory-controlled soils ( b), constructed from data pro-vided by the Pesticide Properti es DataBase (PPDB) [15,130]. The effect of glyphosate on AM fungi has significant implications toward the mainte-nance of a functional soil microbiome within  the plant rhizosphere but literature on the topic remains sparse. The study by Wilkes et  al. [15] determined that, under controlled conditions, glyphosate was able to inhibit AM fungal–host established relationships and reduce root cortical arbuscular structures by a factor of 41.6, equati ng to a reduction of 5057.14%. This supports in part the conclusions of Zaller et al. [12] who also found that the application of glyphosate reduced AM fu ngal colonisation and symbiosis. Further-more, Wilkes et al. [15] were also able to quantify the overall growth implications towards AM fungi in soils supporting winter wheat between soils treated with glyphosate and soils receiving no chemical treatment. Results demonstrated that fungal biomass, as quan-tified via ergosterol, was inhibited at glyphosate concentrations above 75 gL−1 for 12 days. However, fungal biomass began to increase after 12 days post glyphosate application at concentrations of 75 gL−1, suggesting AM fungal growth recovers after glyphosate begins to break down. Growth inhibition and potentia l growth recovery were seen in both CT and ZT soils under controlled growth conditio ns reinforcing the direct effects of glypho-sate upon AM fungal growth. Host wheat root cortical arbuscules were additionally seen to be inhibited at concentrations over 75 gL−1, beginning to increase marginally after 12 days at concentrations below 75 gL−1. This demonstrates the disr uption to the AM fungal life cycle resultant of glyphosate [14,15,141]. In a similar case to glyphosate, other ag rochemicals have NTO properties towards AM fungi. Whilst NTO influences of glyphosate will not be of direct relevance to all land managers, as the employment of glyphosate is sp ecific to zero-till practices, influences of fungicides and pesticides are ubiquitous across many types of arable management. The method of agrochemical application, such as a fungicide seed treatment or direct applica-tion to a developing crop, was described by the literature to result in greater inhibitory effects to AM fungal–host colonisation as well as extra radial hyphae and spore produc-tion [142–144]. Select fungicides were studied to have neutral effects regarding AM fun-gal–host colonisation and development into bulk soils through hyphal growth. For exam-ple, Agrox™ and Thiram™ (Table 2) fungicides applied as a seed treatment were not seen to reduce AM fungal–host colonisation, sporulation, hyphal development, or glomalin soil concentrations in chickpeas ( Cicer arietinum ) [144]. Burrows and Ahmed [145] were able to show metalaxyl fungicides applied to maize (Zae mays  L.) had varied influences on symbioti c AM fungal populations. Burrows and Ahmed [145] were able to show AM fungal–mai ze colonisation increased in the presence Figure 3. Timeline of glyphosate metabolism and Aminomethylphosphonic acid (AMPA) persistencein soils from both ﬁeld soils ( a) and laboratory-controlled soils ( b), constructed from data providedby the Pesticide Properties DataBase (PPDB) [15,130].The effect of glyphosate on AM fungi has signiﬁcant implications toward the mainte-nance of a functional soil microbiome within the plant rhizosphere but literature on thetopic remains sparse. The study by Wilkes et al. [ 15] determined that, under controlledconditions, glyphosate was able to inhibit AM fungal–host established relationships andreduce root cortical arbuscular structures by a factor of 41.6, equating to a reduction ofEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 11435057.14%. This supports in part the conclusions of Zaller et al. [ 12] who also found that theapplication of glyphosate reduced AM fungal colonisation and symbiosis. Furthermore,Wilkes et al. [ 15] were also able to quantify the overall growth implications towards AMfungi in soils supporting winter wheat between soils treated with glyphosate and soilsreceiving no chemical treatment. Results demonstrated that fungal biomass, as quantiﬁedvia ergosterol, was inhibited at glyphosate concentrations above 75 g L 1for 12 days.However, fungal biomass began to increase after 12 days post glyphosate application atconcentrations of 75 g L 1,suggesting AM fungal growth recovers after glyphosate beginsto break down. Growth inhibition and potential growth recovery were seen in both CT andZT soils under controlled growth conditions reinforcing the direct effects of glyphosateupon AM fungal growth. Host wheat root cortical arbuscules were additionally seen to beinhibited at concentrations over 75 g L 1, beginning to increase marginally after 12 daysat concentrations below 75 g L 1. This demonstrates the disruption to the AM fungal lifecycle resultant of glyphosate [14,15,141].In a similar case to glyphosate, other agrochemicals have NTO properties towardsAM fungi. Whilst NTO inﬂuences of glyphosate will not be of direct relevance to all landmanagers, as the employment of glyphosate is speciﬁc to zero-till practices, inﬂuencesof fungicides and pesticides are ubiquitous across many types of arable management.The method of agrochemical application, such as a fungicide seed treatment or directapplication to a developing crop, was described by the literature to result in greaterinhibitory effects to AM fungal–host colonisation as well as extra radial hyphae and sporeproduction [ 142–144]. Select fungicides were studied to have neutral effects regarding AMfungal–host colonisation and development into bulk soils through hyphal growth. Forexample, Agrox ™and Thiram ™(Table 2) fungicides applied as a seed treatment were notseen to reduce AM fungal–host colonisation, sporulation, hyphal development, or glomalinsoil concentrations in chickpeas ( Cicer arietinum ) [144].Burrows and Ahmed [ 145] were able to show metalaxyl fungicides applied to maize(Zae mays L.) had varied inﬂuences on symbiotic AM fungal populations. Burrows andAhmed [ 145] were able to show AM fungal–maize colonisation increased in the presenceof metalaxyl alone and in combination with febuconazole. This is in contrast to theinhibitory effects of metalaxyl inﬂuences on AM fungal abundance and host colonisation ofleeks ( Allium ampeloprasum var. porrum), emphasising potential plant-derived AM fungalprotection from metalaxyl.Table 2. The effects of fungicide active components on arbsuclar mycorrhizal (AM) fungal abundance in soil and therhizosphere, the inﬂuence on sporulation, and the concentration of soil glomalin between three different methods offungicide application and the crop to which applied [130,143,144,146,147].Method ofApplicationProduct Active Component Crop TypeEffect on AMFungalAbundanceEffect onSporulationEffect on SoilGlomalinConcentrationSeed treatmentAgrox™ CaptanPea ( Pisumsativum ),Chickpea ( Cicerarietinum )Neutral No change No changeAllegiance™ Metalaxyl Pea, Chickpea Negative No change No changeApron MaxxRTA™Fludioxonil and metalaxyl Pea, Chickpea Negative No change No changeTrilex AL™Triﬂoxystrobin andmetalaxylPea, Chickpea Negative No change No changeVitaﬂo 280™ Carbathiin and thiram Pea, Chickpea Negative Inhibited ReducedCrown™Carbathiin andthiabendazolePea, Chickpea Negative Inhibited ReducedThiram 75wp™ Thiram Pea, Chickpea Neutral No change No changeEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1144Table 2. Cont.Method ofApplicationProduct Active Component Crop TypeEffect on AMFungalAbundanceEffect onSporulationEffect on SoilGlomalinConcentrationPlant applicationBenomyl1-[(butyamino)carboyl-1H-benzimidazole-2yl]carbonateProso millet(Panicummiliaceum )Negative No change No changeBavistinMethylbenzimidazol-2-ylcarbonateProso millet Negative No change No changeAgrox™ Captan Proso millet Positive No change No changeMancozebManganese ethylenebis(dithiocarbomate)(polymatrix) complexzinc saltProso millet Negative No change No changeSoil drenchBenomyl1-[(butyamino)carboyl-1H-benzimidazole-2yl]carbonateCucumber(Cucumis sativus )Negative Inhibited ReducedFenpropimorphRac-(2R,6S)-4-[(2E)-3-(-4-tert-butylphenyl)-2-methylpropyl]-2,6-dimethylmorpholineCucumber Negative Inhibited ReducedPropiconazole1-((2-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-propyl-1,3-dioxolan-20yl)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazoleCucumber Negative Inhibited ReducedPropiconazoleandfenpropimorphAs above Cucumber Negative Inhibited ReducedFungicide type and method of application have a profound effect on AM fungalabundance, sporulation, and host colonisation [ 148]. Table 2 presents several fungicides,their active component, along with their inﬂuence on AM fungi and their host crop. Soildrench applications of fungicides, direct application of fungicide to soils, were studiedby Kjoller and Rosendahl [ 147] and demonstrated the reduced abundance of AM fungiin bulk soils and rhizosphere soils from ITS sequencing. Benomyl was used in both thestudies by Kjoller and Rosendahl [ 147] and Channabasava and Jorquera [ 146]. However,Channabasava and Jorquera [ 146] applied benomyl fungicide to a developing crop andwere able to show a reduction to AM fungal biomass but to a lesser degree than the soildrench application utilised by Kjoller and Rosendahl [ 147]. This is due to the quantityand duration of exposure of benomyl to soil-dwelling AM fungi. A further differencebetween the two studies, which will have a large implication towards fungicide applicationmethods, is the difference in studied crop: cucumber ( Cucumis sativus ) and proso millet(Panicum miliaceum ). Both of these crops are from different plant families and will interactwith AM fungi in marginally different mechanisms. Therefore, the interaction and inﬂu-ences of fungicides towards AM fungi are not clear cut and are also dependant on thehost crop.Interestingly, the crop application of Agrox ™was quantiﬁed to increase AM fungalabundance in bulk soils and the rhizosphere, from ITS sequencing methodologies, however,had no inﬂuence on sporulation and soil glomalin concentrations [ 144,146]. Channabasavaand Jorquera [ 147] did not investigate the degree of established symbiosis with host croproot cortical cells and were not able to comment whether the quantiﬁed increase to AMfungi from Agrox ™also increased symbiotic structures, i.e., arbuscules, or was resultant ofan increase in intra-radiating hyphal networks. This is an effect on AM fungi that requiresfurther validation.AM fungi are of agronomic importance, however, are impacted by the applicationof pesticides, with previous studies showing a range of inﬂuences resultant of pesticideEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1145application. Pesticides with a short half-life (7 to 21 days) were shown to have a reducedimpact on AM fungal–host colonisation, abundance, and sporulation due to reducedinteraction with AM fungi as an NTO [ 149]. Ipsilants et al. [ 150] comment on the lowsoil persistence of azadirachtin, a pesticide from neem trees ( Azadirachta indica Juss). Thehalf-life of azadirachtin was reported to be within 14 days [ 151]. This is primarily due tomicrobial degradation of azadirachtin. However, azadirachtin has been shown to havefungicidal properties, with studies showing increased application concentrations up toten-fold have bacterial and wider fungal genera inhibition properties [152].Wang et al. [ 153] produced a study investigating phoxim pesticide with applicationconcentrations ranging from 0 to 400 mg L 1and applied directly to soils supporting thedevelopment of carrots ( Daucus carota ) and spring onions ( Allium wakegi ). Wang et al. [ 153]were able to show all phoxim applications reduced AM fungal colonisation of carrots buthad no impact on AM fungal colonisation of spring onions. In a similar case to applicationsof fungicides, the host crop plays an invaluable role in the mitigation of agrochemical effectson the preservation of AM fungi communities. Furthermore, application time throughoutthe cropping year is also highly variable. Ipsilants et al. [ 150] applied a range of pesticides:azadirachtin, carbendazim, pyrethrum, spinosad, and terpens, across a range of days(20 to 90 days) post planting for a pepper ( Piper nigrum ) crop. Chemical applications at20 days had the greatest degree of inﬂuence on AM fungi-mediated changes to root length.Spinosad and pyrethrum increased AM fungal colonisation and reduced root length by anadditional 7% compared with control samples receiving no pesticide treatment. Such anincrease in AM fungi colonisation may be the result of reduced community competitionallowing Glomus mosseae , as identiﬁed by Ipsilants et al. [ 150], to increase host colonisation.All pesticide applications at day 90 produced increases in the degree of G. mosseae rootcolonisation, further suggesting reduced community competition within the rhizospherehas allowed G. mossaea to increase abundance and host interactions. Several studies havealluded to the reduced community of fungivorous nematodes from pesticide applications.Fungivorous nematodes were also studied to reduce the overall abundance of AM fungi.Pesticide-mediated reduction of fungivorous nematodes may be the causation for theincrease in G. mossaea reported by Ipsilants et al. [150].7. Abiotic Management of AM FungiOver the past several decades, literature has described the fragile nature of AM fungialong with the degrees of destruction and inhibition resultant of agricultural practices,including soil disturbance and chemical applications [ 130,154,155]. However, the physicaland chemical properties of arable soils can limit the initial population of AM fungi. Suchproperties include soil salinity, drought, and heat stress.Soil salinity and salt-stressed crops are rapidly expanding issues facing modernagriculture. Sodium chloride is the most dominant form of salt found to increase soilsalinity and derived from primary sources such as weathering of parent rock, as wellas from sea water spray carried further in-land and deposited over arable soils [ 155].Secondary processes that increase soil salinity can be seen from poor irrigation and drainage,improper management of water, and groundwater. The Food and Agriculture Organisation(FAO) [ 156] estimated a total area of 1 billion hectares, across 100 countries, were sufferingfrom saline soils, with 0.3 to 1.5 million hectares added to that estimates every year reducingthe overall area for adequate crop production. Several mechanical methodologies couldbe employed to reduce soil salinity, however, the application of AM fungi as a means ofbio-amelioration [ 155]. Studies have shown the increased maintenance of ionic homeostasis,osmotic equilibrium, induce antioxidant synthesis, enhance photosynthetic efﬁciency, andregulate phytohormone production to mitigate the inﬂuence of soil salt growth inhibitionand nutrient acquisition leading to reduced crop yields [ 157,158]. Some sources advise theaddition of sulfuric acid to soils to reduce salinity along with gypsum salts or increasedirrigation [ 159]. However, these will have connotations for AM fungi with the potential toreduce their interaction with a host crop to a greater degree than the salinity of the soil alone.Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1146Several studies have begun to produce a series of AM fungal species-speciﬁc applicationsto a developing crop (Table 3) to biologically mitigate the abiotic stressor [ 154,160–168].Santander et al. [ 169] investigated the use of AM fungi as a biofertiliser for the mitigationof salt stress and yield increase in lettuce ( Lactuca sativa ), ﬁnding Claroideoglomus claroideuminoculations increased crop biomass and nitrogen uptake. C. claroideum was concluded tohave mitigated salt stress from high salinity soils. However, inoculating L. sativa with AMfungal spores isolated from saline soils had a signiﬁcantly reduced effect on overall cropbiomass [169], potentially indicating a change in AM fungal diversity.Table 3. Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) inoculum to established crop to mitigate abiotic plant stressors (salinity, heat anddrought), with measured resultant effects. An update to [154,157–168].Plant Stressor Crop AM Fungal Inoculum Crop ResponseSalinityCucmis sativus L.Glomus intraradices,Glomus mossaeaIncreased chlorophyll content in leaves andoverall biomassSolanum lycopersicum L. Glomus intraradices Increased ion absorption and leaf chlorophyllLeymus chinensis Glomus mosseaeIncreased AM fungal colonisation, water content, andphosphorus and nitrogen uptakeTriticum aestivum L. Rhizophagus intraradices Maintianed overall biomass, increased water uptakeHeatTriticum aestivum L.Rhizophagus irregularisRhizophagus intraradicesIncreased nutrient content and uptake, increase to overallbiomass and water contentZea mays L. Rhizophagus intradices Increased crop biomass and leaf chlorophyllDroughtTriticum aestivum L.Glomus mosseaeGlomus fasciculatumRhizophagus irregularisRhizophagus intraradicesIncreased crop biomass, ascorbic acid content, andleaf chlorophyllTriticum aestivum Glomus masseaeIncreased crop biomass, ascorbic acid content, nitrogenand phosphorus metabolism, and leaf chlorophyllTriticum durum Rhizophagus intraradices Increased metal ions (copper, zinc, manganese)Zea mays Rhizophagus intraradicesIncreased absorption of phosphorus, potassium, nitrogenand magnesiumGlobal climate change has driven an increased persistence in drought across manyregions of the world. Drought drastically suppresses plant growth and reduces overall cropyields [ 169]. Many soil microbes, AM fungi, in particular, aid plant responses to drought.However, the interactions between plant and microbe in response to drought conditions,are not fully understood and are still an area requiring further investigation. Literature hasdemonstrated the increased water uptake from AM fungal branching mycelial networksthrough soil pores, not typically explored by host root systems, and the transport of waterto the AM fungal host [ 159,170–172]. Duc et al. [ 170] and Auge et al. [ 158] reported theincreased stomatal conducting leading to a higher transpiration rate, drawing up more AMfungal acquired water through the plant and mitigating drought conditions further for thehost crop.Studies and arable advice to reduce drought stress aim at increasing soil organicmatter and moving soil management regimes towards conservational practices such asreducing till and ZT [ 155]. As shown by Wilkes et al. [ 173], the implementation of ZTpractices conserves AM fungal populations and increases their inﬂuence on soil quality.Kozjek et al. [174] investigated the inﬂuence of drought on winter wheat via the construc-tion of drought shelters over selected areas of developing crops and effectively reducingrainfall irrigation by 65%. Via molecular sequencing methodologies, Kozjek et al. [ 174] wereable to show the predominate AM fungal genera, Acaulospora ,Paraglomus and Funneliformis ,associated with winter wheat both under drought shelters and in open ﬁeld conditions.Furthermore, Kozjek et al. [ 174] demonstrated the adaptability of established AM fungalEncyclopedia 2021 ,1 1147symbiosis under temporary drought between organic and CT farming systems. Reports ofthe adaptability of AM fungi in CT-managed soils are advantageous as CT-managed soilshave the greatest degree of negative impacts and implications to AM fungal populations,leading to reductions in soil quality [173].One of the larger issues facing the implementation of ﬁeld scale inoculations withAM fungi under drought conditions is producing the required inoculum. AM fungi arebiotrophic organisms and cannot be cultured under laboratory conditions to the requiredquantities for ﬁeld applications over large areas. Due to this, several studies have attemptedto increase AM fungal abundance via indirect means. One of these is through the soil inoc-ulation of mycorrhizal helper bacteria (MHB) [ 175]. MHB can have multiple interactionsand form a series of interactions with both a host crop and present AM fungal populations,increasing both AM fungi abundance and acting as a plant growth-promoting rhizobac-terium (PGPR) [ 173]. MHB are readily culturable under laboratory conditions and studieshave shown the feasibility of ﬁeld scale inoculations with MHB. Under drought stressconditions, inoculating soils with MHB may be more advantageous [ 176,177]. However, itis worth noting that, such as interactions with a host crop, AM fungal species should beidentiﬁed before MHB are applied to soils as a species-speciﬁc interaction was shown inthe literature [154,173,175,177].Plants often face multiple stressors simultaneously rather than individually. Globaltemperatures are currently increasing in all regions, with profound drawbacks on theproduction of select crops [ 163,178,179]. An increase of 10–15C is adequate to endure heatstress, a plant stressor that was reported with increasing frequency in the last decade andattributed to global warming [ 170,180]. AM fungi were studied to aid in the mitigation ofheat stress in a similar manner to that of increasing drought tolerance in crops, i.e., throughthe provision of water, as well as regulating root hydraulic pressure, aquaporin geneexpression, and phytohormone exudation [ 181]. Duc et al. [ 170] highlight the need forcontinued investigations into AM fungal mitigations of heat stress as the body of literatureaddressing such a problem is greatly limited, however, is going to become a more pressingissue with further increases to global temperatures as global warming continues.8. SummaryIn summary, estimates were able to identify that AM fungi have been historicallymonumental in the development of plant evolution and are a critically important symbi-otic organism for arable agriculture with crop growth promotion, soil stability and soilquality increases.AM fungi can ascertain, utilise, and transport soil-bound nutrients to a host crop.This is of great advantage to a developing crop as the plant can use its resources forcontinued growth and development of above-ground biomass rather than exploratory rootsystems. However, the application of arable fertilisers can disrupt the degree of establishedsymbiosis between AM fungi and host. Through the application of inappropriate quantitiesof fertiliser, AM fungal abundance, biomass, and symbiosis are negatively inﬂuenced. Thishas profound connotations for the reduction in soil quality and support of an arable crop.This suggests further work is required to understand and tailor fertiliser applications forthe desired crop and the soils in which support them.The manner in which arable soil is managed has a profound inﬂuence on the abun-dance and symbiosis of AM fungi. Soil managed via CT is the most invasive and AMfungal disruptive, whilst ZT managed soil as a stark contrast to CT management, is theleast soil invasive and AM fungal disruptive, leading to increased AM fungal contributionsto soil stability and soil quality. However, agrochemicals, such as glyphosate employedin ZT management strategies, additionally is detrimental to AM fungal communities andtheir associations with a host crop. Regardless, sustainable, conservative soil managementutilising glyphosate maintains a greater abundance of AM fungi within arable soils whencompared with disruptive CT management.Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1148The use of other agrochemicals, such as fungicides and pesticides, have a varied effecton AM fungi populations within the rhizosphere. Many of these chemical applications havereducing and/or inhibitory properties towards AM fungal–host colonisation. However,several agrochemicals have neutral effects towards AM fungi, not inﬂuencing the degreeof crop root-associated AM fungi, maintaining nutrient transfer and soil quality increasingeffects from glomalin. A select number of fungicides and pesticides were shown to increasethe abundance and symbiotic root structures of AM fungi. Current understanding poten-tially suggests a reduction in community competition within the rhizosphere allowing AMfungi to increase in abundance and become more dominant within this region of soil.Soil properties also cannot be ignored in respect to arable management and cropproduction, such that drought susceptible regions require a modiﬁed soil managementstrategy that could include a focused application of select AM fungal species dependant onthe crop under development. This is also true for many abiotic plant stressors. In orderto overcome this, further work on species-speciﬁc interactions between AM fungi andhost crops in a variety of soil textures, agrochemical types and applications, as wellas potential plant stressors, should be studied further. Such a tailored approach is amonumental undertaking, however, the beneﬁts of such information and modiﬁcationsto arable practices could lead to increased soil quality and crop production in soils andenvironments that may otherwise struggle to support a crop.Funding: This research received no external funding.Acknowledgments: I would like to thank Doug, Keith, Ronni and Ian for their continued adviceand support.Conﬂicts of Interest: The author declares no conﬂict of interest.Entry Link on the Encyclopedia Platform: https://encyclopedia.pub/16747.References1. Rillig, M.; Wright, S.; Eviner, V . The role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and glomalin in soil aggregation: Comparing effects ofﬁve plant species. Plant Soil 2002 ,2, 325–333. [CrossRef]2. Kottke, I.; Nebel, M. The evolution of mycorrhiza-like associations in liverworts: An update. New Phytol. 2005 ,167, 330–334.[CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Dastogeer, K.M.G.; Zahan, M.I.; Tahjib-Ul-Arif, M.; Akter, M.A.; Okazaki, S. Plant Salinity Tolerance Conferred by ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungi and Associated Mechanisms: A Meta-Analysis. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 1927. [CrossRef]4. Wright, S.F.; Upadhyaya, A. A survey of soils for aggregate stability and glomalin, a glycoprotein produced by hyphae ofarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Soil 1996 ,198, 97–107. [CrossRef]5. Wright, S.F.; Frankee-Snyder, M.; Morton, J.B. Time-course study and partial characterization of a protein on hyphae of arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi during active colonization of roots. Plant Soil 1996 ,181, 193–203. [CrossRef]6. Pohanka, M.; Vlcek, V . Immunoassay of Glomalin by Quartz Crystal Microbalance Biosensor Containing Iron Oxide Nanoparticles.Int. J. Anal. Chem. 2020 ,2020 , 8844151. [CrossRef] [PubMed]7. Lu, X.; Lu, X.; Lio, Y. Effect of Tillage Treatment on the Diversity of Soil Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal and Soil Aggregate-Associated Carbon Content. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 2986. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8. Burri, K.; Groke, C.; Graf, F. Mycorrhizal fungi protect the soil form wind erosion: A wind tunnel study. Land Degrad. Dev. 2011 ,24, 292–385. [CrossRef]9. Wilkes, T.I.; Warner, D.J.; Edmonds-Brown, V .; Davies, K.G.; Denholm, I. Zero Tillage Systems Conserve Arbuscular MycorrhizalFungi, Enhancing Soil Glomalin and Water Stable Aggregates with Implications for Soil Stability. Soil Syst. 2021 ,5, 4. [CrossRef]10. Jiang, X.; Alan, L.; Wright, X.; Wang, F.; Liang, L. Tillage-induced changes in fungal and bacterial biomass associated with soilaggregates: A long-term ﬁeld study in a subtropical rice soil in China. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2011 ,48, 168–173. [CrossRef]11. Helander, M.; Saloniemi, I.; Omacini, M.; Druille, M.; Salminen, J.P .; Saikkonen, K. Glyphosate decreases mycorrhizal colonizationand affects plant-soil feedback. Sci. Total Environ. 2018 ,642, 285–291. [CrossRef] [PubMed]12. Zaller, J.G.; Heigl, F.; Ruess, L.; Grabmaier, A. Glyphosate herbicide affects belowground interactions between earthworms andsymbiotic mycorrhizal fungi in a model ecosystem. Sci. Rep. 2014 ,4, 5634. [CrossRef]13. AHDB. Taking a Look at UK Crop Production 2020/21. 2020. Available online: https://ahdb.org.uk/news/taking-a-look-at-uk-crop-production-2020-21 (accessed on 15 July 2020).14. Berruit, A.; Lumini, E.; Baletini, B.; Bianciotto, V . Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi as Natural Biofertilizers: Let’s Beneﬁt from PastSuccesses. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,6. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 114915. Wilkes, T.I.; Warner, D.J.; Davies, K.G.; Edmonds-Brown, V . Tillage, Glyphosate and Beneﬁcial Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi:Optimising Crop Management for Plant–Fungal Symbiosis. Agriculture 2020 ,10, 520. [CrossRef]16. Martins, S.; Medeiros, F.; Lakshamanan, V .; Bias, H. Impact of Seed Exudates on Growth and Bioﬁlm Formation of Bacillusamyloliquefaciens ALB629 in Common Bean. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,8, 2631. [CrossRef] [PubMed]17. Smith, S. Q&A: What are strigolactones and why are they important to plants and soil microbes? BMC Biol. 2014 ,12, 19.18. Besserer, A.; Puech-Pag ès, V .; Kiefer, P .; Gomez-Roldan, V .; Jauneau, A.; Roy, S.; Portais, J.C.; Roux, C.; B écard, G.; S éjalon-Delmas,N. Strigolactones stimulate arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi by activating mitochondria. PLoS Biol. 2006 ,4, 7. [CrossRef] [PubMed]19. Buee, M.; Rossignol, M.; Jauneau, A.; Ranjeva, R.; B écard, G. The pre-symbiotic growth of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi isinduced by a branching factor partially puriﬁed from plant root exudates. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2000 ,13, 693–698.[CrossRef] [PubMed]20. Thirkell, T.; Pastok, D.; Field, K. Carbon for nutrient exchange between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and wheat varietiesaccording to cultivar and changes atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2019 ,26, 1725–1738. [CrossRef]21. Chen, M.; Arato, M.; Borghi, L.; Nouri, E.; Reinhardt, D. Beneﬁcial Services of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi—From Ecology toApplication. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 1270. [CrossRef]22. Balestrini, R.; Bonfante, P . Cell wall remodeling in mycorrhizal symbiosis: A way towards biotrophism. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 237. [CrossRef] [PubMed]23. Ivanov, S.; Harrison, M.J. Accumulation of phosphoinositides in distinct regions of the periarbuscular membrane. New Phytol.2019 ,221, 2213–2227. [CrossRef] [PubMed]24. Bonfante, P .; Anca, I.-A. Plants, mycorrhizal fungi, and bacteria: A network of interactions. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 2009 ,35,363–383. [CrossRef] [PubMed]25. Kariman, K.; Barker, S.J.; Tibbett, M. Structural plasticity in root-fungal symbioses: Diverse interactions lead to improved plantﬁtness. PeerJ 2018 ,6, e6030. [CrossRef] [PubMed]26. Giovannetti, M.; Avio, L.; Fortuna, P .; Pellegrino, E.; Sbrana, C.; Strani, P . At the Root of the Wood Wide Web. Plant Signal. Behav.2006 ,1, 1–5. [CrossRef]27. Wilkes, T.I.; Warner, D.J.; Edmonds-Brown, V .; Davies, K.G.; Denholm, I. A comparison of methodologies for the staining andquantiﬁcation of intracellular components of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in the root cortex of two varieties of winter wheat.Access Microbiol. 2020 ,1. [CrossRef]28. Lerat, S.; Lapointe, L.; Gutjahr, S.; Piche, Y.; Vierheilig, H. Carbon partitioning in a split-root system of arbuscular mycorrhizalplants is fungal and plant species dependent. New Phytol. 2003 ,157, 589–595. [CrossRef]29. Blanke, V .; Wagner, M.; Renker, C.; Lippert, H.; Michulitz, M.; Kuhn, A.J.; Buscot, F. Arbuscular mycorrhizas in phosphate-pollutedsoil: Interrelations between root colonization and nitrogen. Plant Soil 2011 ,343, 379–392. [CrossRef]30. Olsson, P .A.; Rahm, J.; Aliasgharzad, N. Carbon dynamics in mycorrhizal symbioses is linked to carbon costs and phosphorusbeneﬁts. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 2010 ,72, 123–131. [CrossRef]31. Smith, S.E.; Read, D.J. Mycorrhizal Symbiosis ; Academic Press: London, UK, 2008.32. Bago, B.; Pfeffer, P .E.; Abubaker, J.; Jun, J.; Allen, J.W.; Brouillette, J.; Douds, D.D.; Lammers, P .J.; Shachar-Hill, Y. Carbonexport from arbuscular mycorrhizal roots involves the translocation of carbohydrate as well as lipid. Plant Physiol. 2003 ,131,1496–1507. [CrossRef]33. Schubert, A.; Allara, P .; Morte, A. Cleavage of sucrose in roots of soybean (Glycine max) colonized by an arbuscular mycorrhizalfungus. New Phytol. 2004 ,1, 495–501. [CrossRef]34. Doidy, J.; van Tuinen, D.; Lamotte, O.; Corneillat, M.; Alcaraz, G.; Wipf, D. The Medicago truncatula sucrose transporter family:Characterization and implication of key members in carbon partitioning towards arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Mol. Plant 2012 ,5, 1346–1358. [CrossRef] [PubMed]35. Becard, G.; Doner, L.W.; Rolin, D.B.; Douds, D.D.; Pfeffer, P .E. Identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of trehalose in vesicular arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi by in vivo C-13 NMR and HPLC analyses. New Phytol. 1991 ,118, 547–552. [CrossRef]36. Morgan, J.B.; Connolly, E.L. Plant-Soil Interactions: Nutrient Uptake. Nat. Educ. Knowl. 2013 ,4, 2.37. Johansen, A.; Jensen, E.S. Transfer of N and P from intact or decomposing roots of pea to barley interconnected by an arbuscularmycorrhizal fungus. Soil Biol. Biochem. 1996 ,28, 73–81. [CrossRef]38. Hodge, A.; Campbell, C.; Fitter, A.H. An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus accelerates decomposition and acquires nitrogen directlyfrom organic material. Nature 2001 ,413, 297–299. [CrossRef] [PubMed]39. Toussaint, J.-P .; St-Arnoud, M.; Charest, C. Nitrogen transfer and assimilation between the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomusintraradices Schenck & Smith and Ri T-DNA roots of Daucus carota L. in an in vitro compartmented system. Can. J. Microbiol. 2004 ,50, 251–260. [PubMed]40. Tian, J.; Dippold, M.; Pausch, J.; Blagodatskaya, E.; Fan, M.; Li, X.; Kuzyakov, Y. Microbial response to rhizodeposition dependingon water regimes in paddy soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2013 ,65, 195–203. [CrossRef]41. Govindarajulu, M.; Pfeffer, P .; Jin, H.; Abubaker, J.; Douds, D.; Allen, J.; Bucking, H.; Lammers, P .; Schachar-Hill, Y. Nitrogentransfer in the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nature 2005 ,435, 819–823. [CrossRef] [PubMed]42. Calabrese, S.; Perez-Tienda, J.; Ellerbeck, M.; Arnould, C.; Chatagnier, O.; Boller, T.; Schussler, A.; Brachmann, A.; Wipf, D.; Ferrol,N. GintAMT3-a low-afﬁnity ammonium transporter of the arbuscular mycorrhizal Rhizophagus irregularis .Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 679. [CrossRef]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 115043. Leigh, J.; Hodge, A.; Fitter, A.H. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi can transfer substantial amounts of nitrogen to their host plantfrom organic material. New Phytol. 2009 ,181, 199–207. [CrossRef]44. Breuillin-Sessoms, F.; Floss, D.S.; Gomez, S.K.; Pumplin, N.; Ding, Y.; Levesque-Tremblay, V .; Noar, R.D.; Daniels, D.A.; Bravo, A.;Eaglesham, J.B. Suppression of arbuscule degeneration in Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter mutants is dependent on theammonium transporter 2 family protein AMT2;3. Plant Cell 2015 ,27, 1352–1366. [CrossRef] [PubMed]45. Garcia, K.; Zimmermann, S. The role of mycorrhizal associations in plant potassium nutrition. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 337.[CrossRef] [PubMed]46. Anschütz, U.; Becker, D.; Shabala, S. Going beyond nutrition: Regulation of potassium homoeostasis as a common denominatorof plant adaptive responses to environment. J. Plant Physiol. 2014 ,171, 670–687. [CrossRef] [PubMed]47. Olsson, P .A.; Hammer, E.C.; Wallander, H.; Pallon, J. Phosphorus availability inﬂuences elemental uptake in the mycorrhizalfungus Glomus intraradices , as revealed by particle-induced X-ray emission analysis. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2008 ,74,4144–4148. [CrossRef]48. Casieri, L.; Lahmidi, N.A.; Doidy, J.; Veneault-Fourrey, C.; Migeon, A.; Bonneau, L. Biotrophic transportome in mutualistic plantfungal interactions. Mycorrhiza 2013 ,23, 597–625. [CrossRef]49. Rabie, G.G.; Almadini, A.M. Role of bioinoculants in development of salt-tolerance of Vicia faba plants under salinity stress. Afr.J. Biotechnol. 2005 ,4, 210–222.50. Estrada, B.; Aroca, R.; Maathuis, F.J.M.; Barea, J.M.; Ruiz-Lozano, J.M. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi native from a Mediterraneansaline area enhance maize tolerance to salinity through improved ion homeostasis. Plant Cell Environ. 2013 ,36, 1771–1782. [CrossRef]51. Zhang, H.; Wei, S.; Hu, W.; Xiao, L.; Tang, M. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis increased potassium contentand expression of genes encoding potassium channels in Lycium barbarum .Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 440. [CrossRef]52. Walder, F.; Boller, T.; Wiemken, A.; Courty, P .E. Regulation of plants’ phosphate uptake in common mycorrhizal networks: Role ofintraradical fungal phosphate transporters. Plant Signal. Behav. 2016 ,11, e1131372. [CrossRef]53. Javot, H.; Penmetsa, R.V .; Terzaghi, N.; Cook, D.R.; Harrison, M.J. A Medicago truncatula phosphate transporter indispensablefor the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007 ,104, 1720–1725. [CrossRef]54. Bucher, M. Functional biology of plant phosphate uptake at root and mycorrhiza interfaces. New Phytol. 2007 ,173, 11–26.[CrossRef] [PubMed]55. Kobae, Y.; Ohmori, Y.; Saito, C.; Yano, K.; Ohtomo, R.; Fujiwara, T. Phosphate treatment strongly inhibits new arbuscule develop-ment but not the maintenance of arbuscule in mycorrhizal rice roots. Plant Physiol. 2016 ,171, 566–579. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Balzergue, C.; Chabaud, M.; Barker, D.G.; Becard, G.; Rochange, S.F. High phosphate reduces host ability to develop arbus-cular mycorrhizal symbiosis without affecting root calcium spiking responses to the fungus. Front. Plant Sci. 2013 ,4, 426.[CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Wang, W.; Shi, J.; Xie, Q.; Jiang, Y.; Yu, N.; Wang, E. Nutrient Exchange and Regulation in Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis. Mol.Plant 2017 ,10, 1147–1158. [CrossRef]58. Wang, E.; Schornack, S.; Marsh, J.F.; Gobbato, E.; Schwessinger, B.; Eastmond, P .; Schultze, M.; Kamoun, S.; Oldroyd, G.E. A com-mon signaling process that promotes mycorrhizal and oomycete colonization of plants. Curr. Biol. 2012 ,22,2242–2246 . [CrossRef]59. Feng, Z.; Liu, X.; Zhu, H.; Yao, Q. Responses of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis to Abiotic Stress: A Lipid-Centric Perspective.Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 578919. [CrossRef]60. Wewer, V .; Brands, M.; Dörmann, P . Fatty acid synthesis and lipid metabolism in the obligate biotrophic fungus Rhizophagusirregularis during mycorrhization of Lotus japonicus .Plant J. 2014 ,79, 398–412. [CrossRef]61. Feng, Z.; Liu, X.; Feng, G.; Zhu, H.; Yao, Q. Linking lipid transfer with reduced arbuscule formation in tomato roots colonized byarbuscular mycorrhizal fungus under low pH stress. Environ. Microbiol. 2020 ,22, 1036–1051. [CrossRef]62. Salvioli, A.; Ghignone, S.; Novero, M.; Navazio, L.; Venice, F.; Bagnaresi, P .; Bonfante, P . Symbiosis with an endobacteriumincreases the ﬁtness of a mycorrhizal fungus, raising its bioenergetic potential. ISME J. 2016 ,10, 130–144. [CrossRef]63. Jiang, Y.; Wang, W.; Xie, Q.; Liu, N.; Liu, L.; Wang, D. Plants transfer lipids to sustain colonization by mutualistic mycorrhizal andparasitic fungi. Science 2017 ,356, 1172–1175. [CrossRef] [PubMed]64. Pons, S.; Fournier, S.; Chervin, C.; Becard, G.; Rochange, S.; Puech-Pages, V . Phytohormone production by the arbuscularmycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis .PLoS ONE 2020 ,15, e0240886. [CrossRef] [PubMed]65. Ropars, J.; Toro, K.S.; Noel, J.; Pelin, A.; Charron, P .; Farinelli, L.; Marton, T.; Krüger, M.; Fuchs, J.; Brachmann, A.; et al. Evidencefor the sexual origin of heterokaryosis in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Nat. Microbiol. 2016 ,1, 16033. [CrossRef] [PubMed]66. Keymer, A.; Pimprikar, P .; Wewer, V .; Huber, C.; Brands, M.; Bucerius, S.; Delaux, P .; Klingl, V .; Röpenack-Lahaye, E.; Wang,T.; et al. Lipid transfer from plants to arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi. eLife 2017 ,6, e29107. [CrossRef] [PubMed]67. Feinberg, A.; Stenke, A.; Peter, T.; Hinckley, E.L.S.; Driscoll, C.T.; Winkel, L.H. Reductions in the deposition of sulfur and seleniumto agricultural soils pose risk of future nutrient deﬁciencies. Commun. Earth Environ. 2021 ,2, 101. [CrossRef]68. Gahan, J.; Schmalenberger, A. The role of bacteria and mycorrhiza in plant sulfur supply. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 723.[CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Kertesz, M.; Mirleau, P . The role of microbes in plant sulphur supply. J. Exp. Bot. 2004 ,55, 1939–1945. [CrossRef] [PubMed]70. D’Hooghe, P .; Escamez, S.; Trouverie, J.; Avice, J.-C. Sulphur limitation provokes physiological and leaf proteome changes inoilseed rape that lead to perturbation of sulphur, carbon and oxidative metabolisms. BMC Plant Biol. 2013 ,13, 23. [CrossRef]71. Allen, J.; Shachar-Hill, Y. Sulfur transfer through an arbuscular mycorrhiza. Plant Physiol. 2008 ,149, 549–560. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 115172. Buchner, P .; Takahashi, H.; Hawkesford, M. Plant sulphate transporters: Co-ordination of uptake, intracellular and long-distancetransport. J. Exp. Bot. 2014 ,55, 1765–1773. [CrossRef]73. Cregut, M.; Piutti, S.; Slezack-Deschaumes, S.; Benizri, R. Compartmentalization and regulation of arylsulfatase activites inStreptomyces sp.,Microbacterium sp. and Rhodococcis sp. soil isolates in response to inorganic sulfate limitation. Microbiol. Res.2013 ,168, 12–21. [CrossRef]74. Joner, E.; Briomes, R.; Leyual, C. Metal-binding capacity of arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelium. Plant Soil 2000 ,226,227–234 . [CrossRef]75. Ferrol, N.; Tamayo, E.; Vargas, P . The heavy metal paradox in arbuscular mycorrhizas: From mechanisms to biotechnologicalapplications. J. Exp. Bot. 2016 ,67, 6253–6265. [CrossRef]76. Viehweger, K. How plants cope with heavy metals. Bot. Stud. 2014 ,55, 1–12. [CrossRef]77. Palmer, C.; Guerinot, M.L. A question of balance: Facing the challenges of Cu, Fe, and Zn homeostasis. Nat. Chem. Biol. 2009 ,5,333–340. [CrossRef] [PubMed]78. Tamayo, E.; Gomez-Gallego, T.; Azcon-Aguilar, C.; Ferrol, N. Genome-wide analysis of copper, iron and zinc transporters in thearbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Rhizophagus irregularis .Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,4, 547. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Lehman, A.; Rillig, M.C. Arbuscular mycorrhizal contributions to uptake of metal cations by cucumber plants at two levels ofphosphorus supply. Plant Soil 2015 ,278, 361–370.80. Schubler, A.; Walker, C. The Glomeromycota: A Species List with New Families and New Genera ; The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh:Edinburgh, Scotland; The Royal Botanic Garden Kew: Richmond, UK; Botanische Staatammlung Munich: München, Germany;Oregon State University: Corvallis, OR, USA, 2010.81. Gonzalez-Guerrero, M.; Escudero, V .; Saez, A.; Tejada-Jimenez, M. Transition metal transport in pland and associated endosym-bionts: Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and rhizobia. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 1088. [CrossRef] [PubMed]82. Watts-Williams, S.J.; Cavagnaro, T.R. Nutrient interactions and arbsuclar mycorrhizas: A meta-analysis of a mycorrhiza-defectivemutant and wild-type tomato genotype pair. Plant Soil 2014 ,384, 79–92. [CrossRef]83. Watts-Williams, S.J.; Patti, A.F.; Cavagnaro, T.R. Arbuscular mycorrhizas are beneﬁcial under both deﬁcient and toxic soil zincconditions. Plant Soil 2013 ,371, 299–312. [CrossRef]84. Jansa, J.; Mozafar, A.; Frossard, E. Long-distance transport of P and Zn through the hyphae of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungusin symbiosis with maise. Agronomie 2003 ,23, 481–488. [CrossRef]85. Driver, J.D.; Holben, W.E.; Rillig, M.C. Characterization of glomalin as a hyphal wall component of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi.Soil Biol. Biochem. 2005 ,37, 101–106. [CrossRef]86. Li, A.-R.; Smith, S.E.; Smith, A.F.; Guan, K.-Y. Inoculation with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi suppresses initiation of haustoria inthe root hemiparasite Pedicularis tricolor .Ann. Bot. 2012 ,109, 1075–1080. [CrossRef]87. Larson, W.; Pierce, F. The dynamics of soil quality as a measure of sustainable management. In Deﬁning Soil Quality for a SustainableEnvironment ; Wiley: Madison, WI, USA, 1994; pp. 37–51.88. Lovelock, C.E.; Wright, S.F.; Clark, D.A.; Ruess, R.W. Soil stocks of glomalin produced by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi across atropical rain forest landscape. J. Ecol. 2004 ,92, 278–287. [CrossRef]89. Bendini, S.; Pellegrino, E.; Avio, L.; Pellegrino, S.; Bazzofﬁ, P .; Argese, E.; Giovannetti, M. Changes in soil aggregation andglomalin-related soil protein content as affected by the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal species Glomus mosseae and Glomusintraradices .Soil Biol. Biochem. 2009 ,41, 1469–1494.90. Adeleke, A. Effect of Arbuscular mycorrhizal Fungi and Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria on Glomalin Production. Master’sThesis, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, Canada, 2010.91. Singh, P .; Singh, M.; Tripathi, B. Glomalin: An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal soil protein. Protoplasma 2012 ,250, 663–669.[CrossRef] [PubMed]92. Walley, F.; Gilliespie, A.; Adetona, A.; Germinda, J.; Farrell, R. Manipulation of rhizosphere organisms to enhance glomalinproduction and C sequestration: Pitfalls and promises. Can. J. Plant Sci. 2013 ,94, 1025–1032. [CrossRef]93. Prassad, M.; Chaudhary, M.; Ramakrishnan, S.; Mahawer, S. Glomalin: A miracle protein for soil sustainability. Indian Farmer2018 ,5, 1092–1100.94. Lee, E.-H.; Eo, J.-K.; Ka, K.-H.; Eom, A.-H. Diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and their roles in ecosystems. Mycobiology2013 ,41, 121–125. [CrossRef] [PubMed]95. Lombardo, L.; Palese, A.M.; Grasso, F.; Duffy, D.H., III; Bati, C.B.; Xiloyannis, C. Mechanical Tillage Diversely Affects GlomalinContent, Water Stable Aggregates and AM Fungal Community in the Soil Proﬁles of Two Differently Managed Olive Orchards.Biomolecules 2019 ,9, 639. [CrossRef]96. Shariﬁ, Z.; Azadi, N.; Rahimi, S.; Certini, G. The response of glomalin-related soil proteins to ﬁre or tillage. Geoderma 2018 ,329,65–72. [CrossRef]97. Asmelash, F.; Bekele, T.; Birhane, E. The Potential Role of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in the Restoration of Degraded Lands.Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1095. [CrossRef] [PubMed]98. Sosa-Hernandez, M.; Leifheit, E.; Ingrafﬁa, R.; Rillig, M. Subsoil Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi for Sustainability and Climate-Smart Agriculture: A Solution Right under Our Feet? Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10, 744. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Kabir, Z. Tillage or no-tillage: Impact on mycorrhizae. Can. J. Plant Sci. 2005 ,85, 23–29. [CrossRef]100. Säle, V .; Aguilera, P .; Laczko, E.; Mäder, P .; Berner, A.; Zihlmann, U.; van der Heijden, M.; Oehl, F. Impact of conservation tillageand organic farming on the diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2015 ,84, 38–52. [CrossRef]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1152101. Zheng, H.; Liu, W.; Zheng, J.; Luo, Y.; Li, R.; Wang, H.; Qi, H. Effect of long-term tillage on soil aggregates and aggregate-associatedcarbon in black soil of Northeast China. PLoS ONE 2018 ,13, e0199523. [CrossRef] [PubMed]102. Zhao, X.; Liu, S.; Pu, C.; Zhang, X.; Xue, J.; Ren, Y.; Zhao, X.; Chen, F.; Lal, R.; Zhang, H. Crop yields under no-till farming inChina: A meta-analysis. Eur. J. Agron. 2017 ,84, 67–75. [CrossRef]103. Ferrira, C.; da Silva Neta, C.; Pereira, M.; Guede, J.; Rosset, J.; Anjos, L. Dynamics of soil aggregation and organic carbon fractionsover 23 years of no-till management. Soil Tillage Res. 2020 ,198, 104533. [CrossRef]104. Crittenden, S.J.; Poot, N.; Heinen, M.; van Balen, D.J.M.; Pulleman, M.M. Soil physical quality in contrasting tillage systems inorganic and conventional farming. Soil Tillage Res. 2015 ,154, 136–144. [CrossRef]105. Sheehy, J.; Regina, K.; Alakukku, L.; Six, J. Impact of no-till and reduced tillage on aggregation and aggregate-associated carbonin Northern European agroecosystems. Soil Tillage Res. 2015 ,150, 107–113. [CrossRef]106. Dai, R.J.; Pang, X.G.; Zeng, X.D.; Wang, H.J. Soil carbon density and distribution and inﬂuencing factors in Shandong Province.Res. Environ. Sci. 2015 ,28, 1449–1458.107. Ita, B.N.; Ariga, E.S.; Michieka, R.W.; Muiru, W.M. Comparative Efﬁciency of Tillage Practices in Maize. Curr. Agric. Res. J.2014 ,2. [CrossRef]108. Moussa-Machraoui, S.B.; Errouissi, F.; Ben-Hammouda, M.; Nouira, S. Comparative effects of conventional and no-tillagemanagement on some soil properties under Mediterranean semi-arid conditions in northwestern Tunisia. Soil Tillage Res. 2010 ,106, 247–253. [CrossRef]109. Moroke, T.S.; Dikinya, O.; Patrick, C. Comparative assessment of water inﬁltration of soils under different tillage systems ineastern Botswana. Phys. Chem. Earth 2009 ,34, 316–323. [CrossRef]110. Grange, I.; Prammanee, P .; Prasertsak, P . Comparative Analysis of Different Tillage Systems Used in Sugarcane (Thailand). Aust.Farm Bus. Manag. J. 2005 ,2, 46–50.111. Stanila, S.; Drocas, I.; Molnar, A.; Ranta, O. Studies Regarding Comparative Fuel Consumption at Classical and ConservationTillage. ProEnviron. Promediu 2013 ,6, 199–202.112. Saglam, R.; Seven, L.; Kup, F. Comparative analysis of energy input-outputs of different tillage methods in second crop cornproduction. Not. Sci. Biol. 2020 ,12, 356–365. [CrossRef]113. Elliot, A.; Daniell, T.; Cameron, D.; Field, K. A commercial arbuscular mycorrhizal inoculm increases root colonization acrosswheat cultivars but does not increase assimilation of mycorrhiza-acquired nutrients. New Phytol. Found. 2020 ,3, 588–599. [CrossRef]114. Brito, I.; Goss, M.J.; Carvalho, M.; Chatagnier, O.; Tuinen, D. Impact of tillage system on arbuscular mycorrhiza fungalcommunities in the soil under Mediterranean conditions. Soil Tillage Res. 2012 ,121, 63–67. [CrossRef]115. Kapoor, R. Arbuscular Mycorrhiza and Reactive Oxygen Species. In Arbuscular Mycorrhiza and Stress Tolerance of Plants ; Neeraja,S., Ed.; Springer: Singapore, 2017; pp. 225–243.116. Douds, D.D.; Nagahashi, G. Signalling and Recognition Events Prior to Colonisation of Roots by Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi.InCurrent Advances in Mycorrhizae Research ; Podila, G.K., Douds, D.D., Eds.; APS Press: Saint Paul, MN, USA, 2000.117. Castillo, C.; Rubio, R.; Rouanet, J.L.; Borie, F. Early effects of tillage and crop rotation on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal propagulesin an Ultisol. Biol. Fertil. Soils 2006 ,43, 83–92. [CrossRef]118. Bernola, L.; Cange, C.; Way, M.; Gore, J.; Hardke, J.; Stout, M. Natural Colonization of Rice by Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi inDifferent Production Areas. Rice Sci. 2018 ,25, 169–174. [CrossRef]119. Galvez, L.; Douds, D.; Wagoner, P . Tillage and farming system affect AM fungus populations, mycorrhizal formation, and nutrientuptake by winter wheat in a high-P soil. Am. J. Altern. Agric. 2001 ,16, 152–160. [CrossRef]120. Sharma-Poudyal, D.; Schlatter, D.; Yin, C.; Hulbert, S.; Paulitz, T. Long-term no-till: A major driver of fungal communities indryland wheat cropping systems. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0184611. [CrossRef]121. Akiyama, K.; Matsuzaki, K.; Hayashi, H. Plant sesquiterpenes induce hyphal branching in arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Nature2008 ,435, 824–827. [CrossRef]122. Weetle, J.D.; Abril, M.; Blackwell, M. Phylogenetic distribution of fungal sterols. PLoS ONE 2010 ,5, e10899. [CrossRef]123. Dupont, S.; Lemetais, G.; Ferreira, T.; Cayot, P .; Gervais, P .; Beney, L. Ergosterol biosynthesis: A fungal pathway for life on land?Evol. Int. J. Org. Evol. 2012 ,66, 2961–2968. [CrossRef]124. Wilson, G.W.T.; Rice, C.; Rillig, M.C.; Springer, A.; Hartnett, D. Soil aggregation and carbon sequestration are tightly corre-lated with the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: Results from long-term ﬁeld experiments. Ecol. Lett. 2009 ,12,452–461. [CrossRef]125. Hontoria, C.; Vel ásquez, R.; Benito, M.; Almorox, J.; Moliner, A. Bradford-reactive soil proteins and aggregate stability underabandonedversus tilled olive groves in a semi-arid calcisol. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2009 ,41, 1583–1585. [CrossRef]126. Curaqueo, G.; Barea, J.; Acevedo, E.; Rubio, R.; Cornejo, P .; Borie, F. Effects of different tillage system on arbuscular mycorrhizalfungal propagules and physical properties in a Mediterranean agroecosystem in central Chile. Soil Tillage Res. 2011 ,113,11–18. [CrossRef]127. Nautiyal, P .; Rajput, R.; Pandey, D.; Arunachalam, K.; Arunachalam, A. Role of glomalin in soil carbon storage and its variationacross land uses in temperate Himalayan regime. Biocatal. Agric. Biotechnol. 2019 ,21, 101311. [CrossRef]128. Wright, S.F.; Green, V .S.; Cavigelli, M.A. Glomalin in aggregate size classes from three different farming systems. Soil Tillage Res.2007 ,94, 546–549. [CrossRef]129. Carvalho, F.P . Agriculture, pesticides, food security and food safety. Environ. Sci. Policy 2016 ,9, 685–692. [CrossRef]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1153130. Lewis, K.A.; Tzilivakis, J.; Warner, D.J.; Green, A. An international database for pesticide risk assessmentsand management. Hum.Ecol. Risk Assess. Int. J. 2016 ,22, 1050–1064. [CrossRef]131. AHDB (Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board). Nutrient Management Guide (RB209), Section 4 Arable Crops ; AHDB:Stoneleigh, UK, 2018.132. Battaglin, W.A.; Kolpin, D.W.; Scribner, E.A.; Kuivila, K.M.; Sandstrom, M.W. Glyphosate, other herbicides, and transformationproducts in Midwestwern streams. J. Am. Water Resour. Assoc. 2005 ,41, 323–332. [CrossRef]133. Xu, J.J.; Fang, X.; Li, C.Y.; Yang, L.; Chen, X.Y. General and specialized tyrosine metabolism pathways in plants. aBIOTECH 2019 ,1, 97–105. [CrossRef]134. Palme, K.; Nagy, F. A new gene for auxin synthesis. Cell2008 ,133, 31–32. [CrossRef] [PubMed]135. Neumann, E.; Kohls, S.; Landsberg, E.; Stock-Olivera, K.; Yamada, T.; Romheld, V . Relevance of glyphosate transfer to non-targetplants via the rhizosphere. J. Plant Dis. Prot. 2006 ,20, 963.136. Druille, M.; Omacini, M.; Golluscio, R.A. Glyphosate reduces spore viability and root colonization of arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2013 ,64, 99–103. [CrossRef]137. Bott, S.; Tesfamariam, T.; Kania, A.; Eman, B.; Aslan, N.; Romheld, V .; Neumann, G. Phytotoxicity of glyphosate soil residuesre-mobilised by phosphate fertilization. Plant Soil 2011 ,342, 249–263. [CrossRef]138. Druille, M.; Omacini, M.; Golluscio, R.A.; Cabello, M.N. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are directly and indirectly affected byglyphosate application. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2013 ,72, 143–149. [CrossRef]139. Giesy, J.P .; Dobson, S.; Solomon, K.R. Ecotoxicological risk assessment for Roundup®herbicide. Rev. Environ. Contam. Toxicol.2000 ,167, 35–120.140. Schonbrunn, E.; Eschenburg, S.; Shuttleworth, W.A.; Schloss, J.V .; Amrhein, N.; Evans, J.N.S.; Kabsch, W. Interaction of theherbicide glyphosate with its target enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate 3-phosphate synthasein atomic detail. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 2001 ,98, 1376–1380. [CrossRef]141. Montgomery, H.J.; Monreal, C.; Young, J.C.; Seifert, K. Determination of soil fungal biomass from ergosterolanalyses. Soil Biol.Biochem. 2000 ,32, 1207–1217. [CrossRef]142. Sun, R.; Li, W.; Dong, W.; Tian, Y.; Hu, C.; Liu, B. Tillage Changes Vertical Distribution of Soil Bacterial and Fungal Communities.Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 699. [CrossRef]143. Marin, M.; Ybara, M.; Fe, A.; Garcia-Ferriz, L. Effects of arbsulr mycorrhizal fungi and pesticides on Cyara cardunculus growth.Agric. Food Sci. 2002 ,11, 245–251. [CrossRef]144. Jin, H.; Germida, J.; Walley, F. Suppressive effects of seed-applied fungicides on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) differ withfungicide mode of action and AMF species. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2013 ,72, 22–30. [CrossRef]145. Burrows, R.L.; Ahmed, I. Fungicide seed treatments minimally affect arbuscular-mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) colonization ofselected vegetable crops. J. Biol. Sci. 2007 ,7, 417–420. [CrossRef]146. Channabasava, H.; Jorquera, M. Effects of fungicides on association of arbuscular mycorrhiza fungus Rhizophagus fasciculatus andgrowth of Proso millet ( Panicum miliaceum L.).J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2015 ,15, 35–45. [CrossRef]147. Kjoller, R.; Rosendahl, S. Effects of fungicides on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: Differential responses in alkaline phosphataseactivity of external and internal hyphae. Biol. Fertil. Soils 2000 ,31, 361–365. [CrossRef]148. Rose, D.J.; Santra, D.K. Proso millet ( Panicum miliaceum L.) fermentation for fuel ethanol production. Ind. Crops Prod. 2013 ,43,602–605. [CrossRef]149. Thoeming, G.; Draeger, G.; Poehling, H.M. Soil application of azadirachtin and 3-tigloyl-azadirachtol to control western ﬂowerthrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) translocation and persistence in bean plants. Pest Manag. Sci. 2006 ,62,759–767. [CrossRef]150. Ipsilants, I.; Samourelis, C.; Karpouzas, D. The impact of biological pesticides on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Biol. Biochem.2012 ,45, 147–155. [CrossRef]151. Rosendahl, S. Communities, populations and individuals of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytol. 2008 ,178, 253–266.[CrossRef] [PubMed]152. Gopal, M.; Gupta, A.; Arunachalam, V .; Magu, S.P . Impact of azadirachtin, an insecticidal allelochemical from neem on soilmicroﬂora, enzyme and respiratory activities. Bioresour. Technol. 2007 ,98, 3154–3158. [CrossRef] [PubMed]153. Wang, P .; Tong, R.; Shi, Z.; Xu, X.; He, X. Inoculations with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi increase vegetable yields and decreasephoxim concentrations in carrot and green onion and their soils. PLoS ONE 2011 ,6, e16949. [CrossRef]154. Begum, N.; Qin, C.; Ahanger, M.; Raza, S.; Khan, M.; Ashraf, M.; Ahmed, M.; Zhang, L. Role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inplant growth regulation: Implications in abiotic stress tolerance. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 1068. [CrossRef] [PubMed]155. Evelin, H.; Devi, T.; Gupta, S.; Kapoor, R. Mitigation of Salinity Stress in Plants by Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis: CurrentUnderstanding and New Challenges. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 470. [CrossRef]156. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Status of the Worlds’s Soil Resources (SWSR)—Main Report, United Nations ; Food andAgriculture Organization: Rome, Italy, 2015.157. Augé, R.M.; Toler, H.D.; Saxton, A.M. Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and osmotic adjustment in response to NaCl stress: Ameta-analysis. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 562. [PubMed]Encyclopedia 2021 ,1 1154158. Khallouﬁ, M.; Mart ínez-And újar, C.; Lacha âl, M.; Karray-Bouraoui, N.; P érez-Alfocea, F.; Albacete, A. The interaction betweenfoliar GA3 application and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inoculation improves growth in salinized tomato ( Solanum lycopersicumL.) plants by modifying the hormonal balance. J. Plant Physiol. 2017 ,214, 134–144. [CrossRef]159. Liu, C.; Ravnskov, S.; Liu, F.; Rubæk, G.H.; Andersen, M.N. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi alleviate abiotic stresses in potatoplants caused by low phosphorus and deﬁcit irrigation/partial root-zone drying. J. Agric. Sci. 2018 ,156, 46–58. [CrossRef]160. Bona, E.; Scarafoni, A.; Marsano, F.; Boatti, L.; Copetta, A.; Massa, N.; Gamalero, E.; D’Agostino, G.; Cesaro, P .; Cavaletto,M.; et al. Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis affects the grain proteome of Zea mays: A ﬁeld study. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 26439.[CrossRef] [PubMed]161. Ingrafﬁa, R.; Amato, G.; Sosa-Hern ández, M.; Frenda, A.; Rillig, M.; Giambalvo, D. Nitrogen Type and Availability DriveMycorrhizal Effects on Wheat Performance, Nitrogen Uptake and Recovery, and Production Sustainability. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 760. [CrossRef] [PubMed]162. Fiorilli, V .; Vannini, C.; Ortolani, F.; Garcia-Seco, D.; Chiapello, M.; Novero, M.; Domingo, G.; Terzi, V .; Morcia, C.; Bagnaresi,P .; et al. Omics approaches revealed how arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis enhances yield and resistance to leaf pathogen inwheat. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 9625. [CrossRef]163. Cabral, C.; Ravnskov, S.; Tringovska, I.; Wollenweber, B. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi modify nutrient allocation and compositionin wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) subjected to heat-stress. Plant Soil 2016 ,408, 385–399. [CrossRef]164. Abdi, N.; van Biljon, A.; Steyn, C.; Labuschagne, M.T. Bread Wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) Responses to Arbuscular MycorrhizaeInoculation under Drought Stress Conditions. Plants 2021 ,10, 1756. [CrossRef] [PubMed]165. Hu, J.-L.; Lin, X.-G.; Wang, J.-H.; Shen, W.-S.; Wu, S.; Peng, S.-P .; Mao, T.-T. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Inoculation EnhancesSuppression of Cucumber Fusarium Wilt in Greenhouse Soils. Pedosphere 2010 ,20, 586–593. [CrossRef]166. Balliu, A.; Sallaku, G.; Rewald, B. AMF Inoculation Enhances Growth and Improves the Nutrient Uptake Rates of Transplanted,Salt-Stressed Tomato Seedlings. Sustainability 2015 ,7, 15967–15981. [CrossRef]167. García de Le ón, D.; Vahter, T.; Zobel, M.; Koppel, M.; Edesi, L. Different wheat cultivars exhibit variable responses to inoculationwith arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi from organic and conventional farms. PLoS ONE 2020 ,15, e0233878. [CrossRef]168. Reva, M.; Cano, C.; Herrera, M.; Bago, A. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Inoculation Enhances Endurance to Severe Heat Stress in ThreeHorticultural Crops. HortScience 2021 ,56, 396–406. [CrossRef]169. Hasanuzzaman, M.; Gill, S.S.; Fujita, M. Physiological role of nitric oxide in plants grown under adverse environmental conditions.InPlant Acclimation to Environmental Stress ; Tuteja, N., Gill, S.S., Eds.; Springer Science + Business Media: New York, NY, USA,2013; pp. 269–322.170. Duc, N.H.; Csintalan, Z.; Posta, K. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi mitigate negative effects of combined drought and heat stresson tomato plants. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2018 ,132, 297–307. [CrossRef] [PubMed]171. Chang, W.; Sui, X.; Fan, X.; Jia, T.; Song, F. Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis modulates antioxidant response and ion distributionin salt-stressed Elaeagnus angustifolia seedlings. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 652. [CrossRef] [PubMed]172. Li, J.; Meng, B.; Chai, H.; Yang, X.; Song, W.; Li, S.; Lu, A.; Zhang, T.; Sun, W. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi AlleviateDrought Stress in C3 ( Leymus chinensis ) and C4 ( Hemarthria altissima ) Grasses via Altering Antioxidant Enzyme Activities andPhotosynthesis. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 499. [CrossRef] [PubMed]173. Wilkes, T.I.; Warner, D.J.; Edmonds-Brown, V .; Davies, K.G.; Denholm, I. The Tripartite Rhizobacteria-AM Fungal-Host PlantRelationship in Winter Wheat: Impact of Multi-Species Inoculation, Tillage Regime and Naturally Occurring RhizobacteriaSpecies. Plants 2021 ,10, 1357. [CrossRef]174. Kozjek, K.; Kundel, D.; Kushwaha, S.; Olsson, P .; Ahr én, D.; Fliessbach, A.; Birkhofer, K.; Hedlund, K. Long-term agricul-tural management impacts arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi more than short-term experimental drought. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2021 ,168, 104140. [CrossRef]175. Calvo-Polanco, M.; Sanchez-Romera, B.; Aroca, R.; Asins, M.; Declerk, S.; Dodd, I.; Martinez-Andujar, C.; Albacete, A.; Ruiz-Lozano, J. Exploring the use of recombinant inbred lines in conjunction with beneﬁcial microbial inoculants (AM fungus andPGPR) to improve drought stress tolerance in tomato. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2016 ,131, 47–57. [CrossRef]176. Mitra, D.; Navendra, U.; Panneerselvam, U.; Ansuman, S.; Ganeshamurthy, A.N.; Divya, J. Role of mycorrhiza and its associatedbacteria on plant growth promotion and nutrient management in sustainable agriculture. Int. J. Life Sci. Appl. Sci. 2019 ,1, 1–10.177. Battini, F.; Grønlund, M.; Agnolucci, M.; Giovannetti, M.; Jakobsen, I. Facilitation of phosphorus uptake in maize plants bymycorrhizosphere bacteria. Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 4686. [CrossRef] [PubMed]178. Furze, J.; Martin, A.; Nasielski, J.; Thevathasan, N.; Gordon, A.; Isaac, M. Resistance and resilience of root fungal communities towater limitation in a temperate agroecosystem. Ecol. Evol. 2017 ,7, 3443–3454. [CrossRef] [PubMed]179. Camejo, D.; Rodriguez, P .; Morales, M.; Dell’Amico, J.; Torrecillas, A.; Alarcon, J. High temperature effects on photosyntheticactivity of two tomato cultivars with different heat susceptibility. J. Plant Physiol. 2005 ,162, 281–289. [CrossRef]180. Min, L.; Li, Y.; Hu, Q.; Zhu, L.; Gao, W.; Ding, Y.; Liu, S.; Yang, X.; Zhang, X. Sugar and auxin signaling pathways respond tohigh-temperate stress during another development as revealed by transcript proﬁling analysis in cotton. Plant Physiol. 2014 ,164,1293–1308. [CrossRef] [PubMed]181. Quiroga, G.; Erice, G.; Aroca, R.; Chaumont, F.; Ruiz-Lozano, J. Enhanced drought stress tolerance by the arbuscular mycorrhizalsymbiosis in a drought-sensiative maize cultivar is related to a broader and differential regulation of host plant aquaporins thanin a drought-tolerance cultivar. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1056. [CrossRef] [PubMed]