Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Balancing a budget or running a deficit? The offsetregime of carbon removal and solar geoengineeringunder a carbon budgetShinichiro Asayama1,2,3&Mike Hulme3&Nils Markusson4Received: 4 December 2020 / Accepted: 14 July 2021/#The Author(s) 2021AbstractThe idea of the carbon budget is a powerful conceptual tool to define and quantify theclimate challenge. Whilst scientists present the carbon budget as the geophysical foun-dation for global net-zero targets, the financial metaphor of a budget implies figurativelythe existence of a ‘budget manager ’who oversees the budget balance. Using this fictivecharacter of budget manager as a heuristic device, the paper analyses the roles of carbondioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation management (SRM) under a carbon budget.We argue that both CDR and SRM can be understood as ‘technologies of offset ’.C D Roffsets positive carbon emissions by negative emissions, whereas SRM offsets thewarming from positive greenhouse gas forcing by the induced cooling from negativeforcing. These offset technologies serve as flexible budgeting tools in two differentstrategies for budget management: they offer the promise of achieving a balanced budget,but also introduce the possibility for running a budget deficit. The lure of offsetting restson the flexibility of keeping up an ‘appearance ’of delivering a given budget whilst at thesame time easing budget constraints for a certain period of time. The political side-effectof offsetting is to change the stringency of budgetary constraints from being regulated bygeophysics to being adjustable by human discretion. As a result, a budget deficit can benormalised as an acceptable fiscal condition. We suggest that the behavioural tendency ofpolicymakers to avoid blame could lead them to resort to using offset technologies tocircumvent the admission of failure to secure a given temperature target.Keywords Carbon budget .Climate geoengineering .Carbon dioxide removal .Solar radiationmanagement .Offset .Net zerohttps://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-021-03174-1*Shinichiro Asayamaasayama.shinichiro@nies.go.jpExtended author information available on the last page of the articlePublished online: 29 July 2021Climatic Change (2021) 167:  251 IntroductionTo hold global temperature rise relative to pre-industrial levels to well below 2 °C, andpursuing efforts to limit the rise to 1.5 °C, Article 4 of the 2015 Paris Agreement set amitigation target of achieving a “balance between anthropogenic emissions by sources andremovals by sinks of greenhouse gases ”in the latter half of the twenty-first century. Since then,this so-called net-zero emissions target has become a central focal point in scientific andpolitical discussions (Rogelj et al. 2015b ;G e d e n 2016a ; Fuglestvedt et al. 2018 ;T a n a k aa n dO’Neil 2018 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2019b ,2021 ).The ambiguity of the text of Article 4 spurred discussions about how to interpret themeaning of net-zero emissions —or the notion of neutrality —as a target either of net-zerocarbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions (carbon neutrality) or else of net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions (greenhouse gas neutrality). Because different interpretations have different impli-cations for mitigation policy (see Rogelj et al. 2015b ; Fuglestvedt et al. 2018 ), this may wellremain the subject of continued political negotiations.From the geophysical point of view, however, the scientific literature is unequivocally clearthat to stop global warming at any level, global CO 2emissions by human activities must bereduced to virtually zero (Matthews and Caldeira 2008 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2015b ;R o g e l je ta l .2019b ). This requirement of global net-zero CO 2emissions originates from the scientificconcept of a ‘carbon budget ’—a finite total amount of CO 2that can be emitted into theatmosphere to hold global warming to a given temperature level (Rogelj et al. 2019a ;Matthews et al. 2020 ). The concept of a carbon budget is grounded in well-establishedscientific evidence that CO 2-induced temperature increase is near-proportional to cumulativeCO 2emissions (Allen et al. 2009a ;M a t t h e w se ta l . 2009 ; Meinshausen et al. 2009 ; Zickfeldet al. 2009 ; Gillett et al. 2013 ; Collins et al. 2013 ;K n u t t ia n dR o g e l j 2015 ;M a t t h e w se ta l .2018 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2019a ;M a t t h e w se ta l . 2020 ).The rise of the carbon budget concept has changed the nature and scope of climatemitigation. It reframed the mitigation challenge from a flow problem (emissions rate in agiven year) to a stock problem (total cumulative emissions over time) (Allen et al. 2009b ;Frame et al. 2014 ). The difference between “producing less CO 2”(emissions reduction) and“capturing more CO 2”(negative emissions) is made to appear marginal (Gasser et al. 2015 ).Any method of carbon dioxide removal (CDR) can then be normalised as an extension ofmitigation.The carbon budget idea changed also the debate around what might be considered‘geoengineering ’(or sometimes called ‘climate engineering ’or‘climate intervention ’) tech-nologies. Whilst the line between mitigation and CDR became blurred, CDR is now moreclearly separated from solar radiation management (SRM), the two of which were previouslyoften grouped together under a common label ‘geoengineering ’(Lomax et al. 2015 ; Cox et al.2018 ;M i n xe ta l . 2018 ; Bellamy and Geden 2019 ). For example, the Intergovernmental Panelon Climate Change (IPCC) Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5 °C (SR15) avoidedusing the term ‘geoengineering ’and referred to SRM as “remedial measures ”that aim to“temporarily reduce or offset warming ”, distinct from mitigation, adaptation or CDR (Allenet al. 2018a ). This move seems reasonable insofar that SRM aims to reduce or slow warmingby reflecting solar radiation from the Earth (or increasing the Earth ’s albedo) and hence hasnothing directly to do with CO 2.Nonetheless, some experts consider the SRM method of stratospheric aerosol injection aspart of a potential strategy to meet the Paris temperature goal (Long 2017 ; MacMartin et al.  Page2of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  252018 ). In overshoot scenarios where the warming temporarily exceeds and later returns to agiven temperature limit through net negative CO 2emissions, SRM could be used to shave thepeak off of the warming (Smith and Rasch 2013 ;T i l m e se ta l . 2016 ). Such temporary orlimited use of SRM is often justified as a supplement to—but not a substitute for—mitigationand CDR (Keith and MacMartin 2015 ; MacMartin et al. 2018 ).1.1 Seeing like a fictive ‘budget manager ’Carbon budgets have become a powerful conceptual tool —a“staple of climate policy dis-course ”(Lahn 2020 )—to define and quantify the climate challenge (Matthews et al. 2020 ).The concept, for example, provides scientific grounds for climate justice movements such asfossil fuel divestment (Strauch et al. 2020 ). Activists often refer to an estimate of the carbonbudget as the ‘magic number ’that unbiasedly informs how little amount of CO 2can be emittedto stay below the 1.5 or 2 °C threshold. The number is deemed credible because it is calculated,through a rigorous method of quantification, by sophisticated climate models. The authority ofthe carbon budget is built on its impersonal appearance as a geophysical constraint with littleor no room for political fudging (cf. Porter 1992 ).Whilst scientists present the carbon budget as an entity that is regulated by geophysics, theiruse of the financial metaphor of a budget has a hidden political implication. That is, having afinite budget suggests figuratively that someone has to hold the job of ‘budget manager ’tooversee the budget balance. The proposal by Matthews et al. ( 2020 ) of translating a globalbudget to national allocations implies that, if taken seriously, some kind of a ‘global centralplanner ’(cf. Keith and MacMartin 2015 ) might need to be in charge of such a politicallydifficult task of budget allocation. In this paper, we use this fictive character of a ‘budgetmanger ’as a heuristic device to analyse the role of CDR and SRM under a carbon budget.Through a lens of budget accounting, how would a budget manager see —and potentiallyuse—the technologies of CDR and SRM as budgeting tools?Of course, a carbon budget manager is a fictional character; they do not exist in reality. Ouruse of the fictive budget manager does not directly parallel policy decisions in the real world.But it does allow us to explore more nuanced political implications ifa carbon budget wereadopted not merely as a scientific concept but as a ‘real’policy tool.At the same time, the carbon budget could shape, if not determine, policy in more subtleways. Scientists often believe that greater clarity of science leads to more consistent —andhence better —policy. The carbon budget is seen as a conceptual device to bring consistencybetween science and policy (Frame et al. 2014 ;K n u t t ia n dR o g e l j 2015 ). But policymakers ’behaviours do not necessarily follow the logic of scientists. Their primary concern is more toavoid blame for failure than to strive for consistency (Hood 2007 ;H o w l e t t 2014 ;G e d e n2016b ;2018 ). As shall be argued below, policymakers may find both kinds of‘geoengineering ’technology useful to escape from the admission of failure.In the next two sections, we review the geoscience literature to spell out the geophysicalbase of the carbon budget concept (Section 2) and the ambiguous role of non-CO 2forcing inestimating carbon budgets (Section 3). These reviews lay out how the carbon budget imposes ageophysical constraint, whilst leaving a grey area created by non-CO 2forcing. In the followingtwo sections, we argue that a fictive budget manager (used here as a heuristic device) could seeboth CDR and SRM as ‘technologies of offset ’under a carbon budget (Section 4) and thatthese offset technologies might serve as flexible budgeting tools with regard to two differentstrategies for budget management (Section 5): they can both help sustain a balanced budgetPage3of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25(fiscal prudence) and run a budget deficit (fiscal profligacy). The paper ends (Section 6) withconcluding discussions about how blame-avoidance behaviour might lead policymakers to useboth offset technologies as ways to circumvent admitting policy failure.2 Science behind a carbon budget: linearity and irreversibilityA history of the carbon budget reveals that the term has been used from the 1980s to suggestdifferent meanings (Lahn 2020 ). One example is the annual update of the ‘global carbonbudget ’by the Global Carbon Project, published regularly since 2005. This is referred to as thehistorical trend in CO 2fluxes between the atmosphere, land and ocean (Friedlingstein et al.2019 ). Its focus is on estimating the global carbon cycle over the historical period and wouldbe better phrased as the ‘historical carbon cycle budget ’. This would avoid confusion with theconcept of ‘remaining carbon (emissions) budget ’, that is, a total amount of future allowableCO 2emissions consistent with a given temperature level (Rogelj et al. 2019a ;M a t t h e w se ta l .2020 ). This paper uses the term ‘carbon budget ’solely in this latter sense.The scientific concept of a carbon budget is established by discovering the near-linearrelationship between CO 2-induced global warming and cumulative CO 2emissions, defined asthe‘transient climate response to cumulative carbon emissions ’or TCRE (Gillett et al. 2013 ;Collins et al. 2013 ;M a c D o u g a l l 2016 ). The TCRE is arguably the most significant geophys-ical foundation of the carbon budget concept (Rogelj et al. 2019a ). In essence, a carbon budgetcan be understood as the inverse of the TCRE —choosing a given temperature limit is directlylinked to cumulative CO 2emissions (see Fig. 1a).The linearity of TCRE arises from the physical and biogeochemical processes of thecoupled climate and carbon-cycle system (Millar et al. 2016; MacDougall 2016 ). Currently,about half of the annual anthropogenic CO 2emissions is taken up by natural carbon sinks, theother half remaining in the atmosphere (known as the airborne fraction of CO 2emissions)which leads to the annual increase in atmospheric CO 2concentration (Friedlingstein et al.2019 ). However, this CO 2uptake by the ocean and land sinks weakens with increasingcumulative emissions, leading to a higher airborne fraction of CO 2emissions (Matthewset al. 2009 ). On the other hand, a higher CO 2concentration causes a reduction in radiativeforcing per unit increase in atmospheric CO 2. That is, a smaller increase in CO 2-inducedwarming occurs at higher CO 2concentrations. This cancels out a higher CO 2concentration atlarger cumulative emissions (due to the above saturation effect of carbon sinks). Together,TCRE(CO 2only)e g na hceru t are p m e t l abo l GCumula/g415ve CO 2emissionsCarbon budgetTemperature limitTCRE(CO 2only)Global temperature changeCumula/g415ve CO 2emissionsCarbon budget+ Posi/g415ve carbon-cycle feedbackTemperature limitTCRE(CO 2only)Global temperature changeCumula/g415ve CO 2emissionsTemperature limitCarbon budget+ Posi/g415ve non-CO 2forcing(a) (b) (c)Fig. 1 Schematic of estimating the carbon budget based on transient climate response to cumulative carbonemissions (TCRE) (adapted from Knutti and Rogelj 2015 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2019a ).aLinearity of CO 2-inducedglobal temperature change to cumulative CO 2emissions. Grey shades indicate the uncertainty range for theTCRE estimated by models. bPositive carbon-cycle feedback (e.g. permafrost thawing) that is currentlyunrepresented in models reduces the allowed carbon budget for a given temperature limit. cPositive non-CO 2forcing at the time that CO 2emissions reach net-zero levels also reduces the budget at a future point in time  Page4of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25these two effects give rise to the near-linear relationship between CO 2-induced warming andcumulative CO 2emissions.This near-linear response of global temperature to cumulative carbon emissions is found tobe remarkably robust across climate models and independent of emission scenarios (Gillettet al. 2013 ; Collins et al. 2013 ). The TCRE is thus considered a geophysical property inherentin the coupled climate-carbon system (Matthews et al. 2017 ).Another important geophysical feature that underlies the carbon budget concept is theadditional warming that occurs after a complete cessation of CO 2emissions, often called the‘zero emissions commitment ’o rZ E C( G i l l e t te ta l . 2011 ; Ehlert and Zickfeld 2017 ). Whilstthe TCRE postulates the instantaneous temperature response to cumulative CO 2emissions, theZEC is the long-term future warming caused by past CO 2emissions. If there were a substantialincrease in temperature after CO 2emissions ceased, the allowable amount of cumulativeemissions would have to be smaller in order to secure the desired temperature level.Although the value of ZEC seems to vary —from negative to positive —among climatemodels, the current evidence suggests that there is little or no additional long-term warmingcommitted from past CO 2emissions (Matthews and Caldeira 2008 ; Gillett et al. 2011 ;MacDougall et al. 2020 ). Global temperature remains approximately constant over severalcenturies after CO 2emissions reach zero (Solomon et al. 2009 ). This arises from a near-cancellation of the two opposing —warming and cooling —effects of heat (through physicalprocesses) and carbon (through biogeochemical processes) uptake by the ocean (Matthews andSolomon 2013 ; Goodwin et al. 2015 ; Williams et al. 2016 ).These two effects can be explained thus. The ocean acts like a ‘huge heat sink ’for theEarth, absorbing about 90% of the heat trapped by an increase in greenhouse gases in theatmosphere (Knutti and Rogelj 2015 ; von Schuckmann et al. 2020 ). The ocean has a very longtimescale to adjust to a new thermal equilibrium with the atmosphere. When atmospheric CO 2concentration is kept constant, ocean heat uptake declines over time to approach an equilib-rium, which leads to continued warming for centuries. On the other hand, when CO 2emissionsare zeroed, atmospheric CO 2concentration declines due to the continued uptake of CO 2by theocean. This cooling effect of ocean carbon uptake largely cancels out the warming effect ofocean thermal inertia, hence the near-constant global temperature over time. The eventualwarming caused by past CO 2emissions is mostly irreversible and continues to persist forcenturies to a millennium (Solomon et al. 2009 ; Matthews and Solomon 2013 )—unlessactively and permanently removing CO 2from the atmosphere.In summary, the TCRE shows the linear relationship of CO 2-induced temperature changeto cumulative CO 2emissions, whereas the ZEC presents the irreversible temperature changecaused by CO 2emissions. These two geophysical features provide a robust scientific basis forthe idea of carbon budget. Importantly, however, these geophysical features of linearity andirreversibility are specific only to CO 2. They are not applicable to other non-CO 2greenhousegases (see Section 3). This is why the concept of emissions budget is named using ‘carbon ’instead of ‘greenhouse gas ’.There are two sources of uncertainty when estimating a carbon budget: geophysical andsocioeconomic uncertainty (Matthews et al. 2017 ,2020 ). Much of the geophysical uncertaintyis reflected by the uncertainty range for the TCRE (grey shade in Fig. 1a). This uncertainty canbe taken into account by specifying a likelihood (e.g. a 50% or 66% probability) of keepingwarming below a given temperature level. However, there remain additional carbon-cyclefeedbacks that are currently unrepresented in the TCRE range. For example, the effect ofpermafrost thawing on additional CO 2release can substantially reduce the remaining carbonPage5of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25budget (MacDougall et al. 2015 ; Comyn-Platt et al. 2018 ;G a s s e re ta l . 2018 ;s e eF i g . 1b). It isworth noting here that different methodological definitions of the ‘global mean temperature ’metric and the ‘reference period ’have non-trivial influences on estimates of carbon budgets(see Rogelj et al. 2017 ; Tokarska et al. 2019a ).In addition to geophysical uncertainty, carbon budget estimates are also influenced bysocioeconomic uncertainty associated with the effect of non-CO 2forcing on future warming(Rogelj et al. 2015a ). As shall be discussed below, if there remained positive non-CO 2forcingat the time global CO 2emissions reach net zero, this would reduce the allowable budget(MacDougall et al. 2015 ;T o k a r s k ae ta l . 2018 ; Mengis and Matthews 2020 ; see Fig. 1c).3 The complication of non-CO 2forcing in estimating a carbon budgetThe carbon budget concept makes it clear that peak temperature is largely determined bycumulative CO 2emissions. But global temperature is also influenced by anthropogenicemissions of non-CO 2GHGs and aerosols. The emissions of non-CO 2GHGs such as methane(CH 4) and nitrous oxide (N 2O) have positive radiative forcing; on the other hand, theemissions of aerosol particles like sulphur dioxide (SO 2) cause negative radiative forcing byincreasing —directly and indirectly —the reflection of solar radiation (Ramanathan et al. 2001 ).Currently, non-CO 2forcing has a net warming effect because positive non-CO 2GHG forcingis balanced only in part by negative aerosol forcing (Mengis and Matthews 2020 ).Any change in non-CO 2forcing has an impact on the near-term change of global temper-ature. Model studies find that changes in global temperature after a cessation of non-CO 2emissions vary considerably from immediate warming to gradual cooling (Matthews andZickfeld 2012 ; Allen et al. 2018a ;s e eF i g . 2). This is due to the short atmospheric lifetimesof some non-CO 2GHGs and aerosols (Pierrehumbert 2014 ). For example, methane remains inthe atmosphere for about a decade, tropospheric ozone for several weeks, and aerosols for justa few days (although nitrous oxide has a long atmospheric lifetime of more than a hundredyears). Whilst CO 2emissions cause an irreversible warming that will persist over the centuries,the warming caused by non-CO 2forcing in aggregate is largely transient and hence reversibleover time.It is well-founded in the geoscience literature that due to their short atmospheric lifetimes,the warming from non-CO 2forcing species depends more on their emission rates than on theircumulative emissions (Smith et al. 2012 ; Bowerman et al. 2013 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2014 ; Allen et al.2016 ,2018b ). This suggests climate mitigation policy to be divided into “two separatebaskets ”of CO 2and non-CO 2emissions (Smith et al. 2012 ).According to geoscientists, CO 2mitigation should focus on limiting total cumulative emissions,whilst on the other hand non-CO 2mitigation is to reduce emission rates by the time that net-zeroCO 2emissions are reached. The timing of reducing non-CO 2emissions is crucial. Non-CO 2mitigation can slow the rate of near-term warming but contributes to limiting peak warming onlywhen CO 2emissions are close to net zero (Bowerman et al. 2013; Rogelj et al. 2014; Allen et al.2016). Non-CO 2mitigation cannot therefore ‘buy time ’for delaying CO 2mitigation; it only servesas a complementary strategy for the simultaneous reduction in CO 2emissions.Nonetheless, the effect of non-CO 2forcing on future warming has significant implicationsfor estimating the carbon budget. The role of negative aerosol forcing is of particularimportance —though it is often overlooked in carbon budget estimates (see Mengis andMatthews 2020 ). Given that aerosols mask —but do not erase —some of the warming caused  Page6of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25by GHG emissions, the removal of aerosols (for example by reducing air pollution) couldcause a spike in near-future warming, known as the ‘climate penalty ’(Shindell and Smith2019 ; see magenta line in Fig. 2). The magnitude of the eventual warming from the eliminationof anthropogenic aerosols is estimated to be about 0.5 °C or possibly more (Ramanathan andFeng 2008 ; Hienola et al. 2018 ; Samset et al. 2018 ; Lelieveld et al. 2019 ).Currently, most anthropogenic aerosols are emitted alongside CO 2by burning fossil fuels.Phasing out fossil fuels —the cardinal rule of mitigation policy —reduces both CO 2and aerosolemissions. This means that reducing CO 2emissions would eventually be accompanied by theunavoidable warming (~0.5 °C) from the removal of aerosol cooling (Lelieveld et al. 2019 ;Shindell and Smith 2019 ). For this reason, taking into account the effect of eliminated aerosolsreduces the allowable carbon budget for a given temperature target (Mengis and Matthews2020 ).All of this leads to the reduction of non-CO 2GHG emissions taking on an increasedimportance. However, it is highly unlikely that non-CO 2GHG emissions will be eliminatedcompletely . In particular, methane and nitrous oxide emissions from agriculture and livestockwill likely continue owing to their low technical mitigation potentials (Gernaat et al. 2015 ).There will always remain some volume of non-CO 2GHG emissions even after substantialreduction efforts have been made (Rogelj et al. 2015b ). Putting these two non-CO 2elementstogether —the effects of declining emissions of aerosols and residual emissions of non-CO 2GHGs —means that future non-CO 2forcing will mostly likely continue to have a non-trivialnet warming effect. In estimating carbon budgets, non-CO 2forcing is often assumed to beconstant or declining (Rogelj et al. 2019a ). But this assumption could be wrong: net non-CO 2forcing might increase over the course of the twenty-first century (Feijoo et al. 2019 ;M e n g i sand Matthews 2020 ).Zero CO 2emissions, constant non-CO 2forcingZero CO 2and aerosol emissions, constant non-CO 2GHG forcingZero GHG emissions, constant aerosol forcingZero GHG and aerosol emissionsnoN- C O 2 g n i c r o f0-+TimeGlobal temperature-+Time0Fig. 2 Schematic of the warming commitment of past emissions of greenhouse gases and aerosols (adapted fromMatthews and Zickfeld 2012 ;A l l e ne ta l . 2018a ). Radiative forcing (left) and global temperature change (right)with different combinations of GHG and aerosol emissions reduced to zero. A large immediate warming iscaused after elimination of CO 2and aerosol emissions (yellow line), whilst elimination of all GHG emissionsleads to a gradual cooling (dark blue line). Elimination of all GHG andaerosol emissions leads to a sharp near-term increase, then a subsequent gradual decline in temperature, returning to below the current level (magentaline). The difference in temperature between constant non-CO 2forcing (light blue line) and zeroed non-CO 2emissions (magenta line) reflects the magnitude of non-CO 2warming at current levelsPage7of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25The important point from the above discussion is that the uncertainty over how net non-CO 2forcing (a total of positive and negative forcing from non-CO 2GHGs and aerosols) willevolve over time complicates the work of estimating a carbon budget. The carbon budgetconcept puts the central focus on limiting cumulative CO 2emissions within an allowablebudget. But the question about to what extent non-CO 2forcing will reduce the allowablebudget can hardly be ignored. And if the remaining non-CO 2warming could somehow beoffset by an opposing cooling effect, then the complication of future non-CO 2forcing could beneutralised. This is where SRM might possibly find a potential role in carbon budgetmanagement.4 Technologies of offset: CDR and SRM under a carbon budgetAs seen above, the carbon budget is constructed on a firm geophysical base and its sizeestimate is deducible from climate model simulations. The calculative logic of modellingfacilitates a translation from an aggregate index of global temperature into a metric of tonnes ofCO 2. An important underlying assumption of the budget concept is path independence .T h a tis, every tonne of CO 2adds to the same amount of warming, no matter when and where it isemitted (Matthews et al. 2009 ;K n u t t ia n dR o g e l j 2015 ; Tokarska et al. 2019b ). Emissionspathways do not matter since the cumulative emissions are identical.Path independence is key to understanding the role of CDR and SRM through a lens ofbudget accounting. Estimating carbon budgets is essentially a form of quantification. Quan-tification entails the process of commensuration —i.e. making things that are qualitativelydifferent to be quantitatively equivalent (Espeland and Stevens 1998 ; Mennicken and Espeland2019 ). Commensuration works to simplify different entities into numbers that can easily becompared through a common metric (Espeland and Stevens 1998 ). For example, by measuringthe quantity of CO 2emissions, different social activities from burning trees to driving cars areaccounted for numerically as equivalent acts of emitting CO 2into the atmosphere.In estimating a carbon budget, there are two processes of commensuration involved. First isa commensuration of CO 2emissions in time and space. The path independence of the carbonbudget suggests that CO 2emissions at one place and time are climatically equivalent toemissions of the same magnitude at a different time and place. This leads to a secondcommensuration: an equivalence of reducing anthropogenic CO 2emissions from sources toremoving CO 2by anthropogenic sinks (Gasser et al. 2015 ). Stopping the net flow of anthro-pogenic CO 2into the atmosphere can be done either by eliminating an emission directly atsource (zero emission) or by balancing this emission by sucking out the corresponding amountof CO 2from the atmosphere (net-zero emission).These two processes of commensuration are based on the assumption that ‘a ton of CO 2’isfunctionally equivalent irrespective of how, where and when CO 2is emitted, removed orstored. And thereby any other —social, political, ethical or environmental —considerationsimplicated in CO 2emissions or removals get overlooked (Carton et al. 2021 ). This is notspecific to carbon budget estimates but actually has been a long-standing issue pertaining tocarbon accounting in general (Lohmann 2005 ; MacKenzie 2009 ). The carbon budget justrenders the quantitative equivalence of CO 2across time and space a more central aspect ofclimate science-policy discourse.There is however another, more ambiguous, process of (in)commensuration. That is, theseparation of CO 2-induced warming from non-CO 2warming. Due to the short atmospheric  Page8of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25lifetimes of non-CO 2forcing agents, a reduction of non-CO 2emissions cannot generallyreplace the need for reducing CO 2emissions to net zero. And yet, if future non-CO 2forcinghas a warming effect at the time of reaching net-zero CO 2emissions, this will then reduce theremaining carbon budget. In the accounting of the carbon budget, therefore, transient non-CO 2warming is generally temporally incommensurate —even if temporarily commensurate —withirreversible CO 2-induced warming.These processes of (in)commensuration provide the geophysical basis for the generalaccounting rules of the carbon budget, based on which a fictive budget manger might seethe CDR and SRM methods as potential budgeting tools.4.1 The logic of offset —CDR and SRM as budgeting toolsFrom a budget manager ’s perspective, a carbon budget appears not as a geophysical constraintbut as an accounting system. This means that the mitigation challenge is seen as analogous tothe‘managerial accounting problem ’of controlling the balance of revenues and expenseswithin a given financial budget. Quantification and commensuration are fundamental to carbonbudget management. And the process of commensuration enables the act of substitution —i.e.replacing things with those that are quantitatively equivalent (cf. Markusson et al. 2018 ). Likemoney, the commensurable things are, by definition, substitutable according to a commonmetric.In terms of the budget accounting, CO 2removal is considered (almost) synonymous withCO 2mitigation. A carbon budget manager is indifferent to howanthropogenic CO 2emissionsare reduced to zero, whether by eliminating CO 2emissions from all sources entirely (absolutezero) or by offsetting them with anthropogenic removals of CO 2from the atmosphere (netzero). All that matters is that the net amount of CO 2emitted to and removed from theatmosphere is confined within geophysical limits. This view is reflected by a widespreaduse of ‘net emissions ’(the sum of emissions minus removals) rather than ‘gross emissions ’(atotal amount of emissions, before subtracting removals) in emission scenarios (Anderson andPeters 2016 ;H o l ze ta l . 2018 ).A key characteristic of CDR in this context is to decouple the nature and cost of emissionsreductions from emissions sources in time and space (Kriegler et al. 2013 ; Lomax et al. 2015 ).Instead of reducing directly emissions from specific activities, CDR offers alternative routes tocreating equivalent results through delivering negative emissions elsewhere. CDR is a meanstooffset positive CO 2emissions by negative emissions (cf. Meadowcroft 2013 ). In the eyes ofa budget manager, CO 2removal is analogous to raising ‘additional revenues ’that allow forgreater expenditure. Taking more CO 2outof the atmosphere allows for more CO 2to bepumped intothe atmosphere.What about SRM? Unlike CDR, SRM has nothing to do directly with CO 2. The focus ofSRM is on inducing negative radiative forcing in the climate system, for example, throughreleasing sulphate aerosols into the stratosphere (Lawrence et al. 2018 ). A key effect of SRM isto decouple global temperature from CO 2emissions and hence from atmospheric CO 2concentrations (Matthews and Caldeira 2007 ). SRM could slow or stop the warming regard-less of the amount of CO 2emitted to, or removed from, the atmosphere. A problem is that thecooling induced by SRM has only a temporary effect: any abrupt termination of SRM wouldnecessarily lead to a subsequent spike in warming (Matthews and Caldeira 2007 ).SRM is notsubstitutable with mitigation precisely because it does not reduce CO 2emittedto the atmosphere. Neither does it remove CO 2from the atmosphere. Just as transient non-CO 2Page9of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25warming is distinguished from irreversible CO 2warming, the masked warming created bystratospheric aerosols is not equivalent, in a temporal sense, to the avoided CO 2-inducedwarming by mitigation or CDR. Despite this non-equivalence, it is clear that the intendedpurpose of SRM isto offset the warming resulting from positive GHG forcing (including bothCO 2and non-CO 2) by inducing negative radiative forcing. By masking GHG warming, SRMthus provides a temporary ‘breathing space ’that allows more emissions of CO 2and non-CO 2GHGs. In financial terms, SRM can be regarded as analogous to borrowing ‘stop-gap funds ’totemporarily extend a given budget limit. Under tight budgetary conditions, a budget managermight find such temporary borrowing a useful financial tool. It must however be noted that thisstop-gap measure offers only borrowed funds, a debt which will have to be repaid eventuallythrough later CO 2removal —or otherwise additional borrowing will be needed to extend thebudget limit indefinitely (cf. Asayama and Hulme 2019 ).We can thus see that both CDR and SRM are built upon the same logic of offsetting —i.e.balancing out a positive effect by an opposing negative effect, the result being no netdifference. The two ‘geoengineering ’technologies are therefore ‘technologies of offset ’.Acrucial difference between them however concerns what they are actually offsetting. CDR isoffsetting positive CO 2emissions by inducing negative emissions ( ‘emissions offset ’), whereasSRM is about offsetting the warming from anthropogenic greenhouse gases with the coolingcaused by injected stratospheric aerosols ( ‘warming offset ’).Importantly, commensuration —or inventing quantitative equivalence —is the central pre-mise of offsetting. This is because, in principle, we cannot offset things that are not commen-surable. Offsetting is also a particular form of substitution. Because the purpose of offsetting isto neutralise an effect by creating an opposite effect, what offsetting substitutes for is the effortto directly remove the former effect. For example, if it were made mandatory that CO 2resulting from fossil fuel extraction had to be sequestered in geological carbon storage(Allen et al. 2009b ), then this policy might be considered a substitute for keeping fossil fuelin the ground.But why might offsetting by CDR and SRM become useful for a fictive budget manager? Itis because these offset technologies can be used independently of efforts to reduce CO 2emissions. In the eyes of a budget manager, both CDR and SRM would appear as additionaltools to increase the flexibility for managing the budget balance, either by, respectively, raising‘new revenues ’or borrowing ‘stop-gap funds ’. The lure of offset technologies rests in theirability to place greater flexibility in the hands of a budget manager who is in charge ofdelivering a given carbon budget. But the flexibility of offset could also become the sourcefor a perverse incentive to circumvent the geophysical constraint of a budget.5 Prudence or profligacy: two strategies for managing a carbon budgetWhilst CDR and SRM could be seen as flexible budgeting tools, howa budget manager mightuse these offset technologies for controlling the budgetary balance has yet to be fully realised.In this section, we explore two different scenarios in which a budget manager could possiblyuse the two offsetting methods (CDR and SRM) for managing a carbon budget. First, a fiscalprudence scenario in which a budget manager will stick to keeping a balanced budget withmoderate reliance on offset technologies. A second scenario is fiscal profligacy, where abudget manager will resort to excessive offsetting and hence run into a budget deficit. Animportant point here is that the flexibility that offset technologies provide for budget  Page10of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25management can enable, in principle, both scenarios to be equally plausible. In other words,not only do CDR and SRM offer the promise of balancing a budget, they also open up thepossibility of running a budget deficit.5.1 Fiscal prudence —the promise of keeping a balanced budgetAs discussed above, a carbon budget is constrained by the geophysical value of TCRE. Thelinearity of TCRE suggests that a given temperature target has a ‘static budget ’of cumulativeCO 2emissions. The budget size is fixed by a chosen temperature target. Continued orincreased spending eats away fast at the remaining budget funds, so that the most directoption is to cut ‘expenditures ’(i.e. reduce CO 2emissions). That said, as the budget tightenswith the imposition of a lower temperature target like 1.5 °C, it becomes more difficult to meetthe budget constraint through emissions reductions alone. It therefore becomes increasinglyattractive, and perhaps necessary, for a budget manager to create new ‘revenue streams ’(i.e.CO 2removal by enhancing sinks) to ease the restraint on expenditures.CDR is at the heart of the net-zero strategy for balancing a budget, that is, for achieving abalance between sources ( ‘expenditures ’) and sinks ( ‘revenues ’)o fC O 2.I ti sw i d e l yrecognised that there will remain some amount of CO 2emissions that are either prohibitivelyexpensive or technically infeasible to eliminate directly at source, such as steel and cementmanufacturing, long-distance freight, shipping or aviation. CDR is likely needed, at a mini-mum, for offsetting the so-called residual CO 2emissions from such hard-to-abate sectors(Davis et al. 2018 ; Luderer et al. 2018 ).Meanwhile, the role of SRM in this context is somewhat ambiguous. SRM may be requiredto achieve a balanced budget, but the scope for that depends on the future evolution of non-CO 2forcing. Any future non-CO 2warming at the time of net-zero CO 2emissions will reducethe remaining budget funds that could otherwise be saved for accommodating hard-to-eradicate CO 2emissions. As argued above, future non-CO 2forcing would likely cause a netwarming effect due to the declining aerosol emissions and the residual non-CO 2GHGemissions. Analogously, this warming effect of non-CO 2forcing could be seen as a ‘financialpenalty ’that would reduce the allowable CO 2budget.Emission scenarios often assume that net-negative CO 2emissions would compensate forresidual non-CO 2GHG emissions to achieve net-zero GHG emissions (Rogelj et al. 2015b ;Fuglestvedt et al. 2018 ). However, a contrasting scenario in which SRM w o u l db ed e p l o y e dt ooffset the ‘residual non-CO 2warming ’is not implausible. Given that non-CO 2warming isaccounted separately from CO 2warming in carbon budget estimates, using SRM for thispurpose does not replace CO 2mitigation. SRM-induced cooling in this case is more likeborrowing ‘stop-gap funds ’to neutralise the ‘financial penalty ’of residual non-CO 2warming,thereby keeping intact the geophysical limits of the ‘budgeted funds ’for CO 2emissions.This offset of non-CO 2warming by SRM cooling will however be done outside the generalaccounting of CO 2budget funds. In financial terms, this is akin to ‘debt leverage ’by a shadowbank which acts likea bank but which operates outside normal banking regulations. Crucially,the leverage offered by SRM cooling releases only ‘stop-gap funds ’for neutralising non-CO 2warming. The borrowed funds would have to be paid back at some point in the future, eitherby eliminating non-CO 2emissions or else by an increase in CO 2removal. This supplementaryuse of SRM is only a partial financial tool for retaining a balanced budget, not a stand-alonemeasure.Page11of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25In sum, both CDR and SRM could, in principle, serve as budgeting tools to help achieve anet balanced budget by cancelling out, respectively, the ‘residual expenditures ’(residual CO 2emissions) and the ‘financial penalty ’(residual non-CO 2warming). Whilst CDR assumes avital role in the net-zero budget scheme, the role of SRM is not essential but moresupplemental —its usage largely depends on the magnitude of future non-CO 2warming.Nonetheless, the purpose, and hence the value, of offsetting in this scenario is to maintainadherence to the budget constraints —of a given temperature target —imposed by the geophys-ics. A budget manger could rely on the offsetting tools for securing the fiscal discipline of abalanced budget.5.2 Fiscal profligacy —the peril of running a budget deficitIn contrast to maintaining a balanced budget, it is equally possible to conjecture that a fictivebudget manager would use (or abuse) offset technologies for relaxing geophysical budgetconstraints and thereby raising a budget deficit. Budget deficit means that more CO 2isemitted —either temporarily or indefinitely —than the originally designated budget by thegeophysics. This arguably seems like a reckless choice for a budget manager. However, theflexibility offered by CDR and SRM can actually incentivise a budget manager to haverecourse to ‘excessive offsetting ’that risks running a sustained budget deficit. The lure ofexcessive offset lies in the fact that it allows a budget manger to keep up an ‘appearance ’ofdelivering a given budget whilst at the same time easing budget constraints for a certain periodof time.In this case, CDR would serve as a financial scheme for running a temporary budgetdeficit —or incurring a ‘carbon debt ’—by promising that large-scale CDR deployment willeliminate a deficit later on in the future (cf. Carton 2019 ; Asayama and Hulme 2019 ). This iscalled an ‘overshoot ’scenario in which global temperature temporarily exceeds a giventhreshold, but later returns to the target level by delivering net-negative CO 2emissions(Huntingford and Lowe 2007 ;R o g e l je ta l . 2018 ;T o k a r s k ae ta l . 2019b ). Overshoot thuscreates a temporal gap in offset —possibly lasting decades —between emissions and removals.To reverse an overshoot, what CDR is presumed to offset in large part is not current emissionsbut past emissions that have up to that time been accumulated in the atmosphere.However, the elimination of such a budget deficit requires raising more ‘revenues ’thanwhat was being spent. That is, CDR will have to deliver more removal of CO 2from theatmosphere than the excess amount of CO 2emissions over the budgetary limit ( ‘excessemissions ’). According to climate model simulations, an ‘overshoot budget ’(the cumulativeamount of CO 2that is emitted and removed after exceeding and then returning to a giventemperature target) is generally smaller than an ‘exceedance budget ’(the cumulative amountof CO 2that is emitted before exceeding a given temperature target) (MacDougall et al. 2015 ;Zickfeld et al. 2016 ;G a s s e re ta l . 2018 ;T o k a r s k ae ta l . 2019b ;s e eF i g . 3a). This means that adebt incurred by exceeding a budget must be repaid with interest, the amount of whichdepends on the magnitude of overshoot (cf. Asayama and Hulme 2019 ).Temporary overshoot gives a budget manager considerable leeway to meet budgetaryrequirements. As a fiscal management scheme, overshooting is basically about easing ademand of near-term mitigation by shifting the burden to the future. A key point here is thatovershoot effectively changes the ‘meaning ’(or‘weight ’) of geophysical budget constraints.As overshoot is being allowed, even if temporarily, the budget ceiling loses any sense of a‘strict upper limit ’that must not be exceeded. It instead becomes a mere ‘benchmark ’that can  Page12of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25be crossed, if needed, for an indeterminate period of time (Geden and Löschel 2017 ). As aresult, the financial discipline of adhering to a given budget would be eroded; politicalexpediency takes its place.In the fiscal profligacy scenario, this risk of budget discipline erosion is even greater if abudget manager also resorted to using SRM as a budgeting tool. SRM can prevent temperatureovershoot by shaving off ‘excess warming ’that occurs above the temperature threshold evenwhilst CO 2emissions continue to rise. As continued CO 2emissions are allowed withoutremission, the budget ceiling loses its power to restrain CO 2emissions. More and more CO 2emissions can be accumulated over the original budget limit for so long as SRM keepscancelling out the excess warming (see Fig. 3b). Thus, the offsetting of excess warming bySRM cooling breaks the linear relationship between CO 2-induced global warming and cumu-lative CO 2emissions —the geophysical foundation of the carbon budget concept is eroded.In financial terms, as SRM shaves off the warming from excess CO 2emissions withoutreducing those emissions, this work of shaving off temperature is analogous to ‘monetising adebt’—i.e. financing a government deficit through debt monetisation by the central bank.Though debt monetisation is convenient for a government who can borrow funds withoutneeding to repay a debt, it is a highly dangerous operation. Not only does it erode the fiscaldiscipline of a government, but it may also cause runaway inflation which is detrimental to thenation ’s economy.Likewise, SRM is merely masking the warming caused by excess CO 2emissions. SRMcannot pay back ‘borrowed funds ’on its own terms without a massive rollout of CDR. The actof borrowing through SRM ( ‘temperature shave-off ’) should be combined with the promise ofrepayment by CDR ( ‘temperature overshoot ’), which is often called temperature ‘overshootand peak-shaving ’(Asayama and Hulme 2019 ). This is just like a debt of any kind that mustbe paid back at some point. Otherwise, ‘debt monetisation ’b yS R Mw i l lh a v et ob eo p e r a t e dfor a prolonged —potentially indefinite —period of time, since a sudden cessation of SRMwould cause a dangerous spike in warming and associated severe impacts, losses and damage(Matthews and Caldeira 2007 ; Jones et al. 2013 ; McCusker et al. 2014 ; see Fig. 3b).(b) (a)e g n a h c e r u ta r e p me t l a b o l GCumula/g415ve CO 2emissionsTarget temperature levelCarbon budgetTemperature overshootPeak warming during overshootTCRE TCREGlobal temperature changeCumula/g415ve CO 2emissionsCarbon budgetTemperature shave-oﬀRapid warming a/g332er abrupt cessa/g415on of SRMTarget temperature levelFig. 3 Schematic of the transition of carbon budgets in temperature overshoot and shave-off scenarios. aTheamount of CO 2emissions exceeds the budget for a given temperature level ( ‘exceedance budget ’, a yellow dot),but later declines to the budget consistent with the same temperature level ( ‘overshoot budget ’, a blue dot) byCDR. Due to the hysteresis during the period of peak warming, the overshoot budget contracts below the size ofthe initial exceedance budget. bThe amount of CO 2emissions continues to grow beyond the original budget,whilst the temperature is kept constant at a given level by SRM (a magenta dot). A sudden termination of SRMcauses a rapid warming to the temperature level consistent with cumulative emissions estimated from the TCRE(an orange dot)Page13of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Taken together, under a severe budget constraint, the financial flexibility that CDRa n dS R Mo f f e ra sb u d g e t i n gt o o l sm a yw e l ll o o ka t t r a c t i v ei nt h ee y e so fab u d g e tmanager. It is no surprise that a fictive budget manger might have recourse to excessiveoffsetting by CDR and SRM despite knowing the danger involved in such a recklessdecision. In a temporal sense, this means extending a budget deadline by creating adeficit (cf. Asayama et al. 2019 ). Crucially, as a budget deficit is normalised as a notuncommon fiscal condition, the budget cei ling that was imposed as a geophysicalconstraint becomes adjustable —either significantly eased or completely eliminated —atthe discretion of a budget manager. The r esult is unmitigated carbon emissions greatlyexceeding the original budgetary limit.6 Discussion and conclusionsUsing the fictive budget manager as a heuristic device, we have explored how CDR andSRM could come to play a role as budgeting tools to manage a carbon budget. We showthat they can be understood as ‘technologies of offset ’. CDR offsets positive CO 2emissions by delivering negative emissions ( ‘emissions offset ’), whereas SRM offsetswarming from positive GHG forcing by inducing cooling from negative forcing(‘warming offset ’). In financial terms, CDR and SRM could be thought of beinganalogous to, respectively, raising ‘new revenues ’and borrowing ‘stop-gap funds ’.T h eflexibility of offset technologies could lead to two different strategies for budget man-agement emerging as equally plausible scenarios: either prudence or profligacy. CDRand SRM offer a budget manager the promise of achieving a balanced budget, but at thesame time introduce the possibility of runnin g a budget deficit. Put another way, thepromise of budget flexibility through offsetting goes hand-in-hand with the danger oferoding budget discipline.The logic of offset is to neutralise an effect of an action by creating an opposite effect,instead of removing directly the effect of the first action. Whilst CDR and SRM offset differentthings, both technologies are based on the same offsetting logic. Due to this nature of offset,their usage is physically independent of—ordecoupled from—the effort on reducing CO 2emissions. This gives offset technologies greater flexibility as budgeting tools andcreates adeep ambivalence about their use —offset is both alluring and dangerous. CDR and SRMmight be potentially useful to retain a balanced budget, but they could easily turn into a schemeto accept a budget deficit, that is, justify delayed action on near-term mitigation. In this sense,offset technologies are potential ‘technologies of prevarication ’(McLaren and Markusson2020 ).Crucially, having flexible budgeting tools, even (or perhaps especially) speculative tools,can affect political perceptions of the stringency of budgetary constraints. Under the offsetregime, the budget constraints regulated by the geophysics become malleable by pragmatichuman discretion. Temporary exceedance of a budget ceiling could be seen as tolerablebecause CDR promises to eliminate later an incurred deficit. Or else, a budget ceiling mightseem of no importance because SRM allows the growing deficit by monetising debt for anindefinite period of time. This is the political side-effect of offset technologies: they normaliserunning a budget deficit as an acceptable fiscal condition. The risk is that the promise of thesetwo offset technologies will lure the world into the fiscal quicksand of carbon debt. This riskshould not be underestimated.  Page14of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  256.1 Offsetting as an escape from admitting policy failureThe fictive character of a budget manager is usef ul to delineate hypothetical scenarios in which acarbon budget is adopted as if it were a ‘real’policy framework. But this is of course fiction. No suchfigure as a ‘global central planner ’who is in charge of managing a carbon budget exists in the realworld. So, what can we say about the implications for real policymaking from our analysis based onthe fictive character? Here, it is worth revisiting t he view of scientists and others, who propose thecarbon budget concept as a policy tool, about the r elationship between science and policy.Scientists often claim that the significance of the carbon budget as a guide for climate policyrests on its conceptual simplicity (Knutti and Rogelj 2015 ;L a h n 2020 ). The carbon budgetgreatly simplifies the complex relationships between CO 2emissions, atmospheric CO 2con-centrations and temperature change into a single chart (Frame et al. 2014 ). On this chart, theprimary cause of climate change (i.e. cumulative CO 2emissions) is directly linked to the mostfavoured indicator for climate policy (i.e. global average temperature). Carbon budget is seenas“the simplest and most transparent means ”(Rogelj et al. 2019a ) of connecting thegeoscience to climate policy. In their view, greater scientific clarity brought about by thecarbon budget should translate into more consistent mitigation policy.We argue that such a view of the science-policy interface is a common misconception abouthow actual policymaking takes place in reality. As Geden ( 2016b ) points out, inconsistency isthe inherent feature —the modus operandi —of policymaking. Instead of striving for consis-tency, policymakers are more likely to keep alive uncertainty and ambiguity as a source ofpolitical flexibility (Geden 2018 ). This is because the policymaker ’s behaviour is driven by astrong tendency of avoiding blame for policy failure rather than a desire to claim credit forpolicy success (Hood 2007 ;H o w l e t t 2014 ).What does this behavioural tendency of policymakers towards blame avoidance suggest forhow they approach a carbon budget? Think about policymakers who are under a tight budgetconstraint but with fewer policy options to meet the requirement for balanced budget.Policymakers may seek to raise the budget ceiling by shifting a politically agreed temperaturetarget (well below 2 °C) to higher levels (for example to 2.5 °C). But this would appear topublic audiences as a clear and obvious failure. This means that policymakers are more likelyto quietly move a goalpost —or shift the blame —than to openly admit their failure.In this context, a policy choice to accept ‘temporarily ’a budget deficit by promising toeliminate it later seems politically tempting. This is because it can help policymakers maintainthe‘appearance ’of sticking to the original budget pla n. A combined use of CDR and SRM fortemperature ‘overshoot and peak-shaving ’is more palatable than simply conceding the exceed-ance of a targeted temperature threshold. This does not mean that the offsetting strategy forshaving an overshoot off is not politically problematic. Such recourse to ‘debt financing ’maypossibly result in attracting —not shifting —more blame. Even so, insomuch as the originaltemperature target is being met through a recourse to offset technologies, it could offerpolicymakers an ‘escape route ’from having to admit failure. In other words, offset technologiescreate “constructive ambiguity ”(Geden 2018) for policymakers to avoid blame for failure.The paradox of adopting a carbon budget as a polic y tool is that the more transparency sciencebrings into politics, the greater the political risk of failure becomes. The very idea of a finite carbonbudget suggests a decisive focus on controlling c arbon emissions to stop global warming, therebyrelegating SRM to a marginal policy option. But at same time, the more precise calculation of theremaining budget creates the political condition in which missing a temperature target will be ahigh-stakes political failure. Under such political circumstanc es, SRM can emerge as a last resortPage15of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25to avoid an abysmal failure. The irony is that pres sing for more science-based policy clarity mightactually lead to the opposite of what scientists wish to achieve.So what might be a solution to this political paradox of the carbon budget? Perhaps, what isneeded for making better policy is lessattention paid to finding ‘single numbers ’to summarisethe global climate challenge (cf. Asayama et al. 2019 ; Hulme 2020 ). Estimating carbonbudgets is a form of quantification and commensuration —a means to reduce social complex-ities into mere numbers (Porter 1992 ; Espeland and Stevens 1998 ; Mennicken and Espeland2019 ). Through the process of commensuration by mathematical models, the concept of acarbon budget transforms the complex challenge of climate change into the managerialaccounting problem of controlling net carbon emissions in balance.However, the quantity of tonnes of CO 2in account books says nothing about the humanpractices involved in emitting CO 2. The carbon budget is ignorant of the social and ethicaldifference between reducing CO 2emissions from sources and removing CO 2by enhancedsinks (Shue 2019 ; McLaren et al. 2019 ) and opens the door for the risks associated with SRM.The simplicity of the carbon budget thus comes at a high cost —of narrowing the gaze ofpolicymakers and of removing people and their values from policy discourse. This is thefundamental problem of ‘epistemological reductionism ’associated with climate modelling(Hulme 2011 ;H e y m a n n 2019 ).The logic of offsetting is premised on the pro cess of commensuration by reducing qualitativedifference into quantitative equivalence. A resistance to commensuration —or the ‘undoing ’ofequivalence (Carton et al. 2021)—is thus the best way to prevent the abuse of offsetting. In policyterms, this suggests a need for governance from the ‘ground up ’(Bellamy and Geden 2019)—astronger focus on concrete policy actions to reduc e emissions or remove carbon at specific sourcesand sinks. In line with the proposal by McLaren et al. ( 2019), this also requires a clear separation ofpolicy targets between CO 2mitigation, CO 2removal andnon-CO 2mitigation. Climate policyshould be designed using a broad set of social wel fare goals rather than being tied to delivering asingle, global net-zero target. Such policy design would be better able to appreciate incommensu-rable human values that cannot be reduced to a mer e number in the climate policy debate.Acknowledgements We thank Katarzyna Tokarska for her helpful feedback on an earlier version of the article.We are also grateful to three anonymous reviewers for their thorough reviews of our paper and constructivecomments and suggestions.Author contribution S.A. conceived the study, reviewed the literature and drafted the initial outline of themanuscript. M.H. and N.M. provided critical feedback and helped shape the analysis. All authors contributed tothe writing of the manuscript.Funding Shinichiro Asayama was supported by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Grants-in-Aidfor JSPS Fellows [17J02207] and for Early-Career Scientists [20K20022].Data availability No new data or model outputs were generated as part of this study.DeclarationsConflict of interest The authors declare no competing interests.  Page16of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, whichpermits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you giveappropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, andindicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article'sCreative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not includedin the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation orexceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copyof this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ .ReferencesAllen MR, Frame DJ, Huntingford C et al (2009a) Warming caused by cumulative carbon emissions towards thetrillionth tonne. Nature 458:1163 –1166. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08019Allen MR, Frame DJ, Mason CF (2009b) The case for mandatory sequestration. Nat Geosci 2:813 –814. https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo709Allen MR, Fuglestvedt JS, Shine KP et al (2016) New use of global warming potentials to compare cumulativeand short-lived climate pollutants. Nat Clim Chang 6:773 –776. https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2998Allen MR, Dube OP, Solecki W, et al (2018a) Framing and context. In: IPCC Global Warming of 1.5°C .W o r l dMeteorological Organization, GenevaAllen MR, Shine KP, Fuglestvedt JS et al (2018b) A solution to the misrepresentations of CO 2-equivalentemissions of short-lived climate pollutants under ambitious mitigation. npj Clim Atmos Sci 1:16. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41612-018-0026-8Anderson K, Peters G (2016) The trouble with negative emissions. Science 354:182 –183. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aah4567Asayama S, Hulme M (2019) Engineering climate debt: temperature overshoot and peak-shaving as riskysubprime mortgage lending. Clim Policy 19:937 –946. https://doi.org/10.1080/14693062.2019.1623165Asayama S, Bellamy R, Geden O et al (2019) Why setting a climate deadline is dangerous. Nat Clim Chang 9:570–572. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-019-0543-4Bellamy R, Geden O (2019) Govern CO 2removal from the ground up. Nat Geosci 12:874 –876. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-019-0475-7Bowerman NHA, Frame DJ, Huntingford C et al (2013) The role of short-lived climate pollutants in meetingtemperature goals. Nat Clim Chang 3:1021 –1024. https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2034Carton W (2019) “Fixing ”climate change by mortgaging the future: negative emissions, spatiotemporal fixes,and the political economy of delay. Antipode 51:750 –769. https://doi.org/10.1111/anti.12532Carton W, Lund JF, Dooley K (2021) Undoing equivalence: rethinking carbon accounting for just carbonremoval. Front Clim 3:664130. https://doi.org/10.3389/fclim.2021.664130Collins M, Knutti R, Arblaster J, et al (2013) Long-term climate change: projections, commitments andirreversibility. In: IPCC Climate Change 2013: The physical science basis. Cambridge University Press,CambridgeComyn-platt E, Hayman G, Huntingford C et al (2018) Carbon budgets for 1.5 and 2°C targets lowered bynatural wetland and permafrost feedbacks. Nat Geosci 11:568 –573. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-018-0174-9Cox EM, Pidgeon N, Spence E, Thomas G (2018) Blurred lines: the ethics and policy of greenhouse gas removalat scale. Front Environ Sci 6:38. https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2018.00038Davis SJ, Lewis NS, Shaner M et al (2018) Net-zero emissions energy systems. Science 360:eaas9793. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aas9793Ehlert D, Zickfeld K (2017) What determines the warming commitment after take back cessation of CO 2emissions? Environ Res Lett 12:015002. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aa564aEspeland WN, Stevens ML (1998) Commensuration as a social process. Annu Rev Sociol 24:313 –343. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.soc.24.1.313Feijoo F, Mignone BK, Kheshgi HS et al (2019) Climate and carbon budget implications of linked futurechanges in CO 2and non-CO 2forcing. Environ Res Lett 14:044007. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/ab08a9Frame DJ, Macey AH, Allen MR (2014) Cumulative emissions and climate policy. Nat Geosci 7:692 –693.https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo2254Friedlingstein P, Jones MW, O ’Sullivan M et al (2019) Global carbon budget 2019. Earth Syst Sci Data 11:1783 –1838. https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-11-1783-2019Page17of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Fuglestvedt JS, Rogelj J, Millar RJ et al (2018) Implications of possible interpretations of ’greenhouse gasbalance ’in the Paris Agreement. Philos Trans R Soc A 376:20160445. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2016.0445Gasser T, Guivarch C, Tachiiri K et al (2015) Negative emissions physically needed to keep global warmingbelow 2°C. Nat Commun 6:7958. https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms8958Gasser T, Kechiar M, Ciais P et al (2018) Path-dependent reductions in CO 2emission budgets caused bypermafrost carbon release. Nat Geosci 11:830 –835. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-018-0227-0Geden O (2016a) An actionable climate target. Nat Geosci 9:340 –342. https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo2699Geden O (2016b) The Paris Agreement and the inherent inconsistency of climate policymaking. WileyInterdiscip Rev Clim Chang 7:790 –797. https://doi.org/10.1002/WCC.427Geden O (2018) Politically informed advice for climate action. Nat Geosci 11:380 –383. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-018-0143-3Geden O, Löschel A (2017) Define limits for temperature overshoot targets. Nat Geosci 10:881 –882. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-017-0026-zGernaat DEHJ, Calvin K, Lucas PL et al (2015) Understanding the contribution of non-carbon dioxide gases indeep mitigation scenarios. Glob Environ Chang 33:142 –153. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2015.04.010Gillett NP, Arora VK, Zickfeld K et al (2011) Ongoing climate change following a complete cessation of carbondioxide emissions. Nat Geosci 4:83 –87.https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo1047Gillett NP, Arora VK, Matthews D, Allen MR (2013) Constraining the ratio of global warming to cumulativeCO 2emissions using CMIP5 simulations. J Clim 26:6844 –6858. https://doi.org/10.1175/JCLI-D-12-00476.1Goodwin P, Williams RG, Ridgwell A (2015) Sensitivity of climate to cumulative carbon emissions due tocompensation of ocean heat and carbon uptake. Nat Geosci 8:29 –34.https://doi.org/10.1038/ngeo2304Heymann M (2019) The climate change dilemma: big science, the globalizing of climate and the loss of thehuman scale. Reg Environ Chang 19:1549 –1560. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10113-018-1373-zHienola A, Partanen A-I, Pietikainen J-P et al (2018) The impact of aerosol emissions on the 1.5°C pathways.Environ Res Lett 13:044011. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aab1b2Holz C, Siegel LS, Johnston E (2018) Ratcheting ambition to limit warming to 1.5°C –trade-offs betweenemission reductions and carbon dioxide removal. Environ Res Lett 13:064028. https://doi.org/10.1080/14693062.2017.1397495Hood C (2007) What happens when transparency meets blame-avoidance?. Public Management Review 9(2)191–210. https://doi.org/10.1080/14719030701340275Howlett M (2014) Why are policy innovations rare and so often negative? Blame avoidance and problem denialin climate change policy-making Global Environmental Change 29395 –403. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloenvcha.2013.12.009Hulme M (2011) Reducing the future to climate: a story of climate determinism and reductionism. Osiris 26:245 –266. https://doi.org/10.1086/661274Hulme M (2020) One earth, many futures, no destination. One Earth 2:309 –311. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oneear.2020.03.005Huntingford C, Lowe J (2007) “Overshoot ”scenarios and climate change. Science 316:829. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.316.5826.829bJones A, Haywood JM, Alterskjær K et al (2013) The impact of abrupt suspension of solar radiation management(termination effect) in experiment G2 of the Geoengineering Model Intercomparison Project (GeoMIP). JGeophys Res Atmos 118:9743 –9752. https://doi.org/10.1002/jgrd.50762Keith DW, MacMartin DG (2015) A temporary, moderate and responsive scenario for solar geoengineering. NatClim Chang 5:201 –206. https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate2493Knutti R, Rogelj J (2015) The legacy of our CO 2emissions: a clash of scientific facts, politics and ethics. ClimChang 133:361 –373. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-015-1340-3Kriegler E, Edenhofer O, Reuster L et al (2013) Is atmospheric carbon dioxide removal a game changer forclimate change mitigation? Clim Chang 118:45 –57.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-012-0681-4Lahn B (2020) A history of the global carbon budget. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Clim Chang 11:e636. https://doi.org/10.1002/wcc.636Lawrence MG, Schäfer S, Muri H et al (2018) Evaluating climate geoengineering proposals in the context of theParis Agreement. Nat Commun 9:3734. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-05938-3Lelieveld J, Klingmüller K, Pozzer A et al (2019) Effects of fossil fuel and total anthropogenic emission removalon public health and climate. Proc Natl Acad Sci 116:7192 –7197. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1819989116Lohmann L (2005) Marketing and making carbon dumps: commodification, calculation and counterfactuals inclimate change mitigation. Sci Cult 14:203 –235. https://doi.org/10.1080/09505430500216783  Page18of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Lomax G, Workman M, Lenton T, Shah N (2015) Reframing the policy approach to greenhouse gas removaltechnologies. Energy Policy 78:125 –136. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2014.10.002Long JCS (2017) Coordinated action against climate change: a new world symphony. Issues Sci Technol 33:78 –82Luderer G, Vrontisi Z, Bertram C et al (2018) Residual fossil CO 2emissions in 1.5 –2°C pathways. Nat ClimChang 8:626 –633. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-018-0198-6MacDougall AH (2016) The transient response to cumulative CO 2emissions: a review. Curr Clim ChangReports 2:39 –47.https://doi.org/10.1007/s40641-015-0030-6MacDougall AH, Zickfeld K, Knutti R, Matthews HD (2015) Sensitivity of carbon budgets to permafrost carbonfeedbacks and non-CO 2forcings. Environ Res Lett 10:125003. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/10/12/125003MacDougall A, Frölicher T, Jones C et al (2020) Is there warming in the pipeline? A multi-model analysis of thezero emission commitment from CO2. Biogeosciences 17:2987 –3016. https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-2019-492MacKenzie D (2009) Making things the same: gases, emission rights and the politics of carbon markets.Accounting, Organ Soc 34:440 –455. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2008.02.004MacMartin DG, Ricke KL, Keith DW (2018) Solar geoengineering as part of an overall strategy for meeting the1.5°C Paris target. Philos Trans R Soc A 376:20160454. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2016.0454Markusson N, Mclaren D, Tyfield D (2018) Towards a cultural political economy of mitigation deterrence bynegative emissions technologies (NETs). Glob Sustain 1:e10. https://doi.org/10.1017/sus.2018.10Matthews HD, Caldeira K (2007) Transient climate-carbon simulations of planetary geoengineering. Proc NatlAcad Sci 104:9949 –9954. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0700419104Matthews HD, Caldeira K (2008) Stabilizing climate requires near-zero emissions. Geophys Res Lett 35:L04705.https://doi.org/10.1029/2007GL032388Matthews HD, Solomon S (2013) Irreversible does not mean unavoidable. Science 340:438 –439. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1236372Matthews HD, Zickfeld K (2012) Climate response to zeroed emissions of greenhouse gases and aerosols. NatClim Chang 2:338 –341. https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate1424Matthews HD, Gillett NP, Stott PA, Zickfeld K (2009) The proportionality of global warming to cumulativecarbon emissions. Nature 459:829 –832. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08047Matthews HD, Landry J-S, Partanen A-I et al (2017) Estimating carbon budgets for ambitious climate targets.Curr Clim Chang Reports 3:69 –77.https://doi.org/10.1007/s40641-017-0055-0Matthews HD, Zickfeld K, Knutti R, Allen MR (2018) Focus on cumulative emissions, global carbon budgetsand the implications for climate mitigation targets. Environ Res Lett 13:010201. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aa98c9Matthews HD, Tokarska KB, Nicholls ZRJ et al (2020) Opportunities and challenges in using remaining carbonbudgets to guide climate policy. Nat Geosci 13:769 –779. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-020-00663-3McCusker KE, Armour KC, Bitz CM, Battisti DS (2014) Rapid and extensive warming following cessation ofsolar radiation management. Environ Res Lett 9:024005. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/9/2/024005McLaren D, Markusson N (2020) The co-evolution of technological promises, modelling, policies and climatechange targets. Nat Clim Chang 10:392 –397. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-020-0740-1McLaren D, Tyfield D, Willis R et al (2019) Beyond “net-zero ”: a case for separate targets for emissionsreduction and negative emissions. Front Clim 1:4. https://doi.org/10.3389/fclim.2019.00004Meadowcroft J (2013) Exploring negative territory: carbon dioxide removal and climate policy initiatives. ClimChang 118:137 –149. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-012-0684-1Meinshausen M, Meinshausen N, Hare W et al (2009) Greenhouse-gas emission targets for limiting globalwarming to 2°C. Nature 458:1158 –1162. https://doi.org/10.1038/nature08017Mengis N, Matthews HD (2020) Non-CO 2forcing changes will likely decrease the remaining carbon budget for1.5°C. npj Clim Atmos Sci 3:19. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41612-020-0123-3Mennicken A, Espeland WN (2019) What ’s new with numbers? Sociological approaches to the study ofquantification. Annu Rev Sociol 45:223 –245. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-soc-073117-041343Millar R, Allen M, Rogelj J, Friedlingstein P (2016) The cumulative carbon budget and its implications. OxfordRev Econ Policy 32:323 –342. https://doi.org/10.1093/oxrep/grw009Minx JC, Lamb WF, Callaghan MW et al (2018) Negative emissions-part 1: research landscape, ethics andsynthesis. Environ Res Lett 13:063001. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aabf9bPierrehumbert R (2014) Short-lived climate pollution. Annu Rev Earth Planet Sci 42:341 –379. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-earth-060313-054843Porter TM (1992) Quantification and the accounting ideal in science. Soc Stud Sci 22:633 –651. https://doi.org/10.1177/030631292022004004Page19of2125Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Ramanathan V, Feng Y (2008) On avoiding dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system:formidable challenges ahead. Proc Natl Acad Sci 105:14245 –14250. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0803838105Ramanathan V, Crutzen PJ, Kiehl JT, Rosenfeld D (2001) Aerosols, climate, and the hydrological cycle. Science294:2119 –2124. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1064034Rogelj J, Schaeffer M, Meinshausen M et al (2014) Disentangling the effects of CO 2and short-lived climateforcer mitigation. Proc Natl Acad Sci 111:16325 –16330. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1415631111Rogelj J, Meinshausen M, Schaeffer M et al (2015a) Impact of short-lived non-CO2 mitigation on carbonbudgets for stabilizing global warming. Environ Res Lett 10:075001. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/10/7/075001Rogelj J, Schaeffer M, Meinshausen M et al (2015b) Zero emission targets as long-term global goals for climateprotection. Environ Res Lett 10:105007. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/10/10/105007Rogelj J, Schleussner CF, Hare W (2017) Getting it right matters: temperature goal interpretations in geoscienceresearch. Geophys Res Lett 44:10,662 –10,665. https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GL075612Rogelj J, Shindell D, Jiang K, et al (2018) Mitigation pathways compatible with 1.5°C in the context ofsustainable development. In: IPCC Global Warming of 1.5°C . World Meteorological Organization, GenevaRogelj J, Forster PM, Kriegler E et al (2019a) Estimating and tracking the remaining carbon budget for stringentclimate targets. Nature 571:335 –342. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1368-zRogelj J, Huppmann D, Krey V et al (2019b) A new scenario logic for the Paris Agreement long-termtemperature goal. Nature 573:357 –363. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1541-4Rogelj J, Geden O, Cowie A, Reisinger A (2021) Three ways to improve net-zero emissions targets. Nature 591:365–368. https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-00662-3Samset BH, Sand M, Smith CJ et al (2018) Climate impacts from a removal of anthropogenic aerosol emissions.Geophys Res Lett 45:1020 –1029. https://doi.org/10.1002/2017GL076079von Schuckmann K, Cheng L, Palmer MD et al (2020) Heat stored in the earth system: where does the energygo? Earth Syst Sci Data 12:2013 –2041. https://doi.org/10.5194/essd-12-2013-2020Shindell D, Smith CJ (2019) Climate and air-quality benefits of a realistic phase-out of fossil fuels. Nature 573:408–411. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-019-1554-zShue H (2019) Subsistence protection and mitigation ambition: necessities, economic and climatic. Br J Polit IntRelations 21:251 –262. https://doi.org/10.1177/1369148118819071Smith SJ, Rasch PJ (2013) The long-term policy context for solar radiation management. Clim Chang 121:487 –497. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-012-0577-3Smith SM, Lowe JA, Bowerman NHA et al (2012) Equivalence of greenhouse-gas emissions for peaktemperature limits. Nat Clim Chang 2:535 –538. https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate1496Solomon S, Plattner G-K, Knutti R, Friedlingstein P (2009) Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxideemissions. Proc Natl Acad Sci 106:1704 –1709. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0812721106Strauch Y, Dordi T, Carter A (2020) Constraining fossil fuels based on 2°C carbon budgets: the rapid adoption ofa transformative concept in politics and finance. Clim Chang 160:181 –201. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-020-02695-5Tanaka K, O ’Neill BC (2018) The Paris Agreement zero-emissions goal is not always consistent with the 1.5°Cand 2°C temperature targets. Nat Clim Chang 8:319 –324. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41558-018-0097-xTilmes S, Sanderson BM, O ’Neill BC (2016) Climate impacts of geoengineering in a delayed mitigationscenario. Geophys Res Lett 43:8222 –8229. https://doi.org/10.1002/2016GL070122Tokarska KB, Gillett NP, Arora VK et al (2018) The influence of non-CO 2forcings on cumulative carbonemissions budgets. Environ Res Lett 13:034039. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/aaafddTokarska KB, Schleussner C-F, Rogelj J et al (2019a) Recommended temperature metrics for carbon budgetestimates, model evaluation and climate policy. Nat Geosci 12:964 –971. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41561-019-0493-5Tokarska KB, Zickfeld K, Rogelj J (2019b) Path independence of carbon budgets when meeting a stringentglobal mean temperature target after an overshoot. Earth ’s Futur 7:1283 –1295. https://doi.org/10.1029/2019EF001312Williams RG, Goodwin P, Roussenov VM, Bopp L (2016) A framework to understand the transient climateresponse to emissions. Environ Res Lett 11:015003. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/11/1/015003Zickfeld K, Eby M, Matthews HD, Weaver AJ (2009) Setting cumulative emissions targets to reduce the risk ofdangerous climate change. Proc Natl Acad Sci 106:16129 –16134. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0805800106Zickfeld K, MacDougall AH, Matthews HD (2016) On the proportionality between global temperature changeand cumulative CO 2emissions during periods of net negative CO 2emissions. Environ Res Lett 11:055006.https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/11/5/055006  Page20of21 25Climatic Change (2021) 167:  25Publisher ’sn o t e Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published mapsand institutional affiliations.AffiliationsShinichiro Asayama1,2,3&Mike Hulme3&Nils Markusson41National Institute for Environmental Studies, Tsukuba, Japan2Faculty of Political Science and Economics, Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan3Department of Geography, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK4Lancaster Environment Centre, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UKPage21of2125