Vol.:(0123456789)1 3Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10311-022-01424-xREVIEWBiochar for agronomy, animal farming, anaerobic digestion, composting, water treatment, soil remediation, construction, energy storage, and carbon sequestration: a reviewAhmed I. Osman1  · Samer Fawzy1 · Mohamed Farghali2,3 · Marwa El‑Azazy4  · Ahmed M. Elgarahy5,6 · Ramy Amer Fahim7 · M. I. A. Abdel Maksoud7 · Abbas Abdullah Ajlan8 · Mahmoud Yousry9,10 · Yasmeen Saleem11 · David W. Rooney1Received: 4 February 2022 / Accepted: 22 February 2022 / Published online: 7 May 2022 © The Author(s) 2022AbstractIn the context of climate change and the circular economy, biochar has recently found many applications in various sectors as a versatile and recycled material. Here, we review application of biochar-based for carbon sink, covering agronomy, animal farming, anaerobic digestion, composting, environmental remediation, construction, and energy storage. The ultimate stor -age reservoirs for biochar are soils, civil infrastructure, and landfills. Biochar-based fertilisers, which combine traditional fertilisers with biochar as a nutrient carrier, are promising in agronomy. The use of biochar as a feed additive for animals shows benefits in terms of animal growth, gut microbiota, reduced enteric methane production, egg yield, and endo-toxicant mitigation. Biochar enhances anaerobic digestion operations, primarily for biogas generation and upgrading, performance and sustainability, and the mitigation of inhibitory impurities. In composts, biochar controls the release of greenhouse gases and enhances microbial activity. Co-composted biochar improves soil properties and enhances crop productivity. Pristine and engineered biochar can also be employed for water and soil remediation to remove pollutants. In construction, biochar can be added to cement or asphalt, thus conferring structural and functional advantages. Incorporating biochar in biocomposites improves insulation, electromagnetic radiation protection and moisture control. Finally, synthesising biochar-based materials for energy storage applications requires additional functionalisation.Keywords Climate change mitigation · Biochar applications · Carbon sink · Biochar-based fertilisers · Environmental remediation · Energy storage · Biochar in constructionAhmed I. Osman and Samer Fawzy have contributed equally. * Ahmed I. Osman  aosmanahmed01@qub.ac.uk1 School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Queen’s University Belfast, David Keir Building, Stranmillis Road, Belfast BT9 5AG, Northern Ireland, UK2 Graduate School of Animal and Food Hygiene, Obihiro University of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro, Hokkaido 080-8555, Japan3 Department of Animal and Poultry Hygiene and Environmental Sanitation, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Assiut University, Assiut 71526, Egypt4 Department of Chemistry, Department of Chemistry and Earth Sciences, College of Arts and Sciences, Qatar University, 2713 Doha, Qatar5 Environmental Science Department, Faculty of Science, Port Said University, Port Said, Egypt6 Egyptian Propylene and Polypropylene Company (EPPC), Port-Said, Egypt7 National Center for Radiation Research and Technology (NCRRT), Egyptian Atomic Energy Authority (EAEA), Cairo, Egypt8 Department of Chemistry -Faculty of Applied Science, Taiz University, P.O.Box 6803, Taiz, Yemen9 Faculty of Engineering, Al-Azhar University, Cairo 11651, Egypt10 Cemart for Building Materials and Insulation, postcode 11765, Cairo, Egypt11 Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, Soil and Water Science, The University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA2386 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3IntroductionCarbon sequestration is the process of capturing atmospheric carbon and storing it in a stable form for extended periods. In comparison with the other carbon removal technologies addressed in the literature, biochar has demonstrated great promise in various ways. This encompasses the technologi-cal feasibility, scalability possibilities, carbon removal costs, carbon stability and permanence, verification and monitor -ing, as well as the benefits associated with the various pos-sible carbon sink applications (Fawzy et al. 2020). Carbon capture and storage via biochar production is technologically viable and has the potential to be commercially feasible, par -ticularly given the current state of the carbon sink economy (Osman et al. 2020).Carbon sequestration via biochar production is a rela-tively simple concept. During plant growth, plants take up atmospheric carbon via photosynthesis, and the carbon is stored within the plant structure for as long as the plant exists. When the plant dies, however, the natural decay pro-cess returns the carbon to the atmosphere, thus completing the natural carbon cycle. The synthesis of biochar disrupts the carbon cycle by converting it to a stable form that can withstand degradation, hence avoiding emissions of green-house gases back to the atmosphere (Qambrani et al. 2017; Brassard et al. 2016). Combining photosynthesis and pyro-lytic conversion enables the creation of an effective carbon removal system. Biochar production on a large scale should eventually affect the atmospheric carbon balance by lower -ing atmospheric carbon concentrations.To produce stable biochar that is resistant to degradation and can remain stable in potential reservoirs for hundreds or thousands of years, it is necessary to select feedstocks care-fully and optimise processing conditions in order to meet reservoir-specific requirements while achieving the high-est attainable stability (Fawzy et al. 2021). Additionally, this must be achieved in the most sustainable way possible. While biomass waste is a priority to be utilised for reducing potential emissions and boosting the circular economy, the value and impact of fast-growing speciality crops should not be underestimated, provided they are grown sustainably. If specialised feedstocks are cultivated, the land, water, and nutrient resources used should not directly conflict with food production systems. In general, eligibility of feedstocks must be determined for certification purposes. Additionally, the thermochemical conversion process should be energy effi -cient, and any pyrolytic gases or waste heat generated should be re-used within the process to minimise emissions (EBC 2012a). Fossil-based energy should be excluded from the manufacturing process and used sparingly in agriculture and transportation, where necessary.Furthermore, the final application of the biochar is critical to its sustainability as a carbon sink and should be under -taken as sustainably as possible while following regulatory and technical requirements. Biochar can be used as a car -bon sink in various applications if they are not related to energy production. Furthermore, the biochar must not be subjected to thermal degradation or oxidisation during its service life or at termination (Schmidt et al. 2019a). Herein, we critically review and evaluate the academic literature on various biochar-based carbon sink applications, covering agronomy, animal farming, biological process stimulation such as anaerobic digestion and composting, environmental remediation, civil infrastructure, and finally, energy storage, where the main objective is to promote atmospheric carbon removal while facilitating enhanced utilisation opportuni-ties and secured carbon storage. While biochar can be used in a variety of applications and cascaded value chains, the ultimate storage reservoirs for biochar are soils, civil infra-structure, and landfills. However, despite optimising biochar production to satisfy application-specific requirements, car -bon stability should continue to be the most essential attrib -ute for biochar to fulfil its sequestration purpose once finally applied to such reservoirs for extended periods.AgronomyThe literature has a wealth of information on the long-term storage of biochar in the terrestrial carbon pool via agri -cultural and forest soils. The soil is the largest terrestrial carbon sink, and the impact of biochar application on soils has gained considerable academic and commercial interest over the last two decades. It has been reported that if biochar is produced under the proper conditions to achieve carbon stability, it can be safely stored in soils for centuries.Numerous studies have reported the persistence of carbon in soils. Wang et al. conducted a meta-analysis of 24 studies to determine the stability of biochar in soil. The research-ers conducted a meta-analysis of biochar decomposition and calculated its mean residence time using 128 observa-tions. The degradation rates varied significantly according to the feedstock type, processing conditions, duration of the experiment, and soil clay content. The results demonstrated that the labile carbon pool has a mean residence time of 108 days, and the stable carbon pool has a mean residence time of 556 years, with each pool accounting for 3 and 97% of the total carbon, respectively. This clearly shows that only a small percentage of biochar is bioavailable and that a sub-stantial portion contributes to long-term carbon sequestra-tion. When applied to soils, biochar is subjected to biotic, abiotic, and indirect stresses, all of which affect the rate of mineralisation (Wang et al. 2016).2387 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Highly stable carbon should withstand such stresses, and as previously discussed, this depends on the feedstock and processing conditions. Apart from its potential for car -bon sequestration, biochar has been reported to have many agronomic benefits. Biochar application, in general, is argued to have a significant effect on soil quality and fer -tility. Additionally, improvements in nutrient cycling have been reported, as well as an increase in water and nutrient retention. In theory, the proper application of biochar can significantly impact crop productivity, water and nutrient efficiency, and soil health. Additionally, it has been reported that biochar application can aid in the reduction of green-house gas emissions such as carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide from soils (Fawzy et al. 2020), though the reported results are inconsistent (Semida et al. 2019; Xiao et al. 2019). The benefits outlined above are due to the bio-char's effect on soil physical, chemical and biological prop-erties such as porosity and bulk density, soil water dynam-ics, acidification, interaction with soil organic matter and inhibition of priming effect, and stimulation of soil microbial activity and dynamics (Oni et al. 2019; Dai et al. 2020; Tenic et al. 2020).Figure  1 depicts the impact of biochar application on soil physical, chemical and biological properties. While the results generally indicate positive effects, there have been instances where biochar application resulted in negative out -comes. In general, the results reported in the literature are dependent on the type of feedstock used and the production conditions, the amount of biochar applied, the type of soil used, the specific cropping system, and cultivation manage-ment techniques deployed (Fawzy et al. 2020; Fawzy et al. 2021; Maraseni 2010; Purakayastha et al. 2019).Biochar‑based fertilisersThere is disagreement in the literature regarding the use of biochar as a fertiliser, with some arguing for biochar as a fertiliser (Kumar et al. 2021a), while others downplay its utility for this purpose (Gelardi and Parikh 2021; Ippolito et al. 2020). As previously discussed, the discrepancy could be explained by the difference in climate and soil condi-tions, the feedstocks used for biochar production, or by the processing conditions employed, as it is well established that the nutrient content of biochar is dependent on the raw mate-rials used and the conditions of heat treatment (Tomczyk et al. 2020).In general, biochar contains a small amount of key nutri-ents (Ippolito et al. 2020). This would require large amounts of biochar to be added to the soil, between 10 and 50 t   ha−1, depending on the soil and biochar characteristics. This imposes an economic burden on the farmer, thereby limiting its use (Chunxue et al. 2015; Jin et al. 2019). Additionally, biochar additions greater than 50 t   ha−1 have a detrimental effect on the soil microbial community, impairing its fertil-ity. Moreover, it inhibits plant germination and early growth in the soil when applied at such high rates (Joseph et al. 2021). Furthermore, nutrients are released into the soil dur -ing the initial days following the addition of biochar (Zhao et al. 2016), which reduces the plant's efficiency in utilising these nutrients, thereby affecting the crop's productivity and quality.Thus, biochar is frequently used as a soil amendment rather than a fertiliser, to develop the physical and chemical properties of the soil, while low addition rates (1 t   ha−1) have been used as a nutrient carrier to increase the efficiency of fertiliser use and reduce nutrient losses (Joseph et al. 2021). If, however, biochar is used as a fertiliser, its nutrient content is typically supplemented with a source of nutrients such as chemical or organic fertilisers. Additionally, as discussed in Fig. 1  Biochar has a significant role in improving the chemical, physical, and microbiologi-cal properties of soil. Among the chemical properties of soil that can be improved are pH, nutrient availability, cation-exchange capacity and functional groups. Additionally, soil physical properties such as bulk density, porosity, and water holding capacity properties can be improved. Moreover, soil biological properties are enhanced by the addition of a significant amount of bioavail-able nutrients, which improve the variety, number, and activity of soil microorganisms2388 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3the following section, biochar can be coated with a variety of materials to facilitate the slow release of these nutrients.Chemical fertilisers are critical in modern agriculture, and their importance grows as the population continues to expand. Nonetheless, the plant's efficiency in using it is low, usually around 30–35%, resulting in economic and environ -mental consequences (Li et al. 2019a ; Liu et al. 2019a ). As a result, scientists are working to develop new ways to maximise the benefits of chemical fertilisers while minimis-ing their adverse effects on the environment and financial costs to farms. In this context, biochar-based fertilisers, a process that combines traditional fertilisers and biochar as a carrier, have emerged as an important topic of agricul -tural research (Li et al. 2019a; Liu et al. 2019b). The fol-lowing sections explore the potential for using biochar as a nutrient carrier, preparation techniques, and discusses the impact of using biochar-based fertilisers on agriculture and the environment.Biochar‑based fertiliser preparation techniquesNumerous techniques for preparing biochar-based fertilis-ers have been discussed in the literature, including mixing, impregnation, co-pyrolysis, and encapsulation/coating. This section will explore each of these approaches.MixingBiochar can be mixed with conventional fertilisers such as compound fertilisers containing nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, urea fertilisers, poultry manure, compost, and organic fertilisers prior to or during crop cultivation. Addi-tionally, other additives, such as starch, clay, and alginate, which act as binders, can be used in predetermined propor -tions to create biochar-based fertilisers (Adekiya et al. 2020; Kulczycki et al. 2020; Puga et al. 2020a). After mixing, the nutrient-rich biochar can be ground to a consistent particle size and then granulated or pelletised. This is to minimise transportation costs, facilitate handling, and prevent the loss of biochar powder due to strong winds or heavy rain (Yu et al. 2021a; Shin and Park 2018).ImpregnationImpregnation is the process of adding nutrients in solution form to biochar over a specified period and at a specified rate. This facilitates the sorption of such nutrients onto the surface and pores of the biochar, and the nutrient-enriched biochar is then dried (Sim et al. 2021). Common nutrients in this process are nitrogen (Liu et al. 2019b; Chen et al. 2018a) , phosphorous (Gwenzi et al. 2018), and potassium (Chandra et al. 2020; Khan et al. 2021a). A recent study reported that after undergoing pyrolysis using agricultural waste, the synthesised biochar was impregnated with macro and micronutrients (Lateef et al. 2019). The results indi-cated that the biochar nanocomposite had a neutral pH and a porous structure of 55.9 nm, indicating that it was capable of nutrient adsorption. Additionally, salt index, slow-release column, water absorbance, and retention studies indicated that the synthesised biochar nanocomposite has a high potential for use as a nano-fertiliser.Co‑pyrolysisPreviously, biochar was treated with a source of nutrients, either by mixing it into the biochar or by adding the nutri-ent solution directly to the biochar. However, in this case, nutrients are added to the biomass in the form of a solid substance (Zhao et al. 2016; Lustosa Filho et al. 2017) or a solution (Chen et al. 2020a ) and the biomass is then pyro-lysed in the presence of such nutrients, a process referred to as co-pyrolysis. Co-pyrolysis of biomass with phospho-rous sources has been proposed as a solution to develop-ing improved biochar-based fertilisers with a stable form of carbon and a slow nutrient release mechanism (Zhao et al. 2016 ; Lustosa Filho et al. 2020 ). Furthermore, An et al. (2020) reported co-pyrolysis of biomass (cotton straw), with nutrients such as potassium phosphate and bentonite under microwave irradiation, as a novel strategy for synthesising improved quality biochar-based slow-release fertilisers.Coating and encapsulationWhile biochar-based fertilisers have the potential to reduce nutrient loss and increase soil water retention, scientists are focusing their efforts on promoting sustainable nutri-ent release. Recently, three methods for enhancing the sus-tained release mechanism have been developed, with the primary goal of reducing nutrient leaching and increasing nitrogen use efficiency. The first approach, either biochar alone or in combination with another material, is used to coat conventional fertilisers such as urea (Jia et al. 2020; Mikos-Szymańska et al. 2019; Chen et al. 2018b). The sec-ond technique involves coating the biochar with another material, such as organic matter. Hagemann et al. (2017a) stated that they coated the inner (pores) and outer surfaces of biochar with nutrient-dense organic matter, which resulted in extraordinary nutrient and water retention.The third method is referred to as integrated co-pyrolysis and coating. In this scenario, biochar is co-pyrolysed with chemical fertilisers and then coated with another material such as a polymer or biodegradable biofilm (An et al. 2021a, b). In the coating methods described, the more hydropho-bic groups in the membrane and the greater its thickness, the fewer nutrients are released into the soil, resulting in less fixation, leaching, or volatilisation in the soil. Thus, the 2389 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3appropriate amount of hydrophobic substance and the appro-priate membrane thickness must be determined to ensure that the plant receives an adequate supply of nutrients (An et al. 2021b; Azeem et al. 2016).Biochar engineering methods for enhanced performancePristine biochar has some limitations due to its physico-chemical properties, such as a negatively charged surface, a small specific surface area, and a deficiency of acidic functional groups (Yang et al. 2019a), which confines its application to adsorbing anionic nutrients, such as nitrate and phosphate. Therefore, biochar is modified to overcome the barriers that prevent it from being used for a particular purpose. Currently, research on biochar modification for fertiliser production is insufficient. However, it is possible to benefit from biochar modification methods for other pur -poses such as pollutant removal and adapt these methods to suit the modification of biochar for biochar-based fertiliser production.Biochar-based fertiliser production requires the develop-ment of certain characteristics of pristine biochar for it to be suitable for use as a fertiliser. For example, increasing the amount of potassium and ammonium carried by the biochar, introducing new types of nutrients such as phosphorous and nitrate anions, and making the surface of the biochar more hydrophilic to facilitate the adsorption of nutrients and the subsequent exchange with the soil aqueous solution when added to the soil. Additionally, the pores in the biochar must be larger than the size of the nutrient ions and charged appropriately in order for them to adsorb on the biochar. These desired biochar properties must be developed through modifications to the material's physical properties, such as its specific surface area and pore structure characteristics, as well as its chemical properties, such as its surface func-tional groups. Physical and chemical methods are generally employed to modify biochar. Tables  1 and 2  illustrate the biochar modification methods proposed for producing engi-neered biochar-based fertilisers, where such methods can effectively enhance biochar properties to produce an effec-tive fertiliser. However, it should be noted that practical experiments must be conducted to verify the feasibility of producing plant-nutrient-compatible fertilisers.Additionally, it is worth considering the trade-off between activating biochar and achieving long-term carbon seques-tration. The issue related to physical activation through ther -mal treatment is the excessive loss of carbon as well as high energy consumption during high-temperature activation, which compromises the carbon sequestration potential of the modified biochar. Furthermore, the chemical activation route may impose an environmental burden due to the use of chemicals. In conclusion, we recommend further research on biochar activation in order to establish the optimal con-ditions for biochar production and activation that balance carbon stability and applicability within a broad range of agricultural and environmental applications. Additionally, conducting life-cycle analysis to determine the impact of biochar modification on the environment and carbon seques-tration potential is critical.Physical modification methodsIn general, the most frequently used physical methods for biochar modification are steam/gas activation, ultrasonica-tion, and ball milling. Physical modification increases the surface area and total pore volume of the biochar, as well as facilitates the incorporation of nitrogen-containing groups and enhances the adsorption capacity. As a result of these modifications, biochar's ability to function as a fertiliser is enhanced.The impact of steam/gas activation on biochar properties is influenced by the activation temperature, the mass ratio of steam or gas to biochar, and the duration of the activation. In general, as more carbon atoms are removed from the sur -face of biochar, the volume/radius of pores and surface area increase in line with the steam temperature and treatment time (Sajjadi et al. 2019a). Furthermore, despite the fact that steam is a weak oxidant, steam/gas activation is used to augment biochar surfaces with oxygen-containing func-tional groups (e.g. carboxylic, carbonyl, ether, and phenolic hydroxyl groups), thereby increasing the surfaces' hydro-philicity (Ahmed et al. 2016). While steam/gas activation is simple, it consumes a lot of energy due to the high tempera-ture required. As a result, microwave activation, ultrasoni-cation, plasma treatment, and electrochemical modification strategies have recently grown in popularity as low-cost methods for increasing biochar adsorption capacity (Bushra and Remya 2020).Ultrasonic treatment of biochar results in beneficial chemical and physical changes, including carboxylation, hydrogenation, increased reaction rates and increased inter -nal surface area (Sajjadi et al. 2019a). This type of treat-ment requires significantly less energy than conventional activation methods. Cavitation induced by ultrasound waves exfoliates and disintegrates the regular shape of the biochar's graphitic oxide layers, cleans smooth surfaces, and increases the porosity and permeability of the carbonaceous structure of the biochar (Sajjadi et al. 2019b). The literature reports that biochar had become nanoscale after being exposed to ultrasound waves, resulting in a significant increase in sur -face area (Oleszczuk et al. 2016). However, increasing its frequency for an extended period may result in the destruc-tion of the biochar structure and pores. As a result, proper conditions must be adopted for this strategy to be effective (Nguyen et al. 2021).2390 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 1  Physical techniques of biochar modification include steam or gas activation, ultrasonic treatment and ball millingModification type Method of modification Modification agent Process of modification Key findings ReferencesPhysical Steam/gas activation Steam Biochar was heated from 25 °C under nitrogen flow and preheated 500–800 °C steamSurface area increased from181 to 322  m2  g−1Shim et al. (2015)Steam For 45 min, biochar samples were treated with 5 mL  min−1 of steamReduced equilibrium time from > 24 h to ∼ 4 hImproved adsorption capacities of sul-phamethazine up to 98%Rajapaksha et al. (2016)Carbon dioxide Biochar was treated to a system that ran on carbon dioxide  (CO2) at a rate of 0.15 L  min−1The temperature was raised at a rate of 10 °C  min−1 until 900 °C, then held at 900 °C for 60 minCreated a consistent pore distributionDeveloped total pore volume of 0.0014–0.0468  cm3  g−1Increase surface area from 0.2 to 80.5  m2  g−1Franciski et al. (2018)Carbon dioxide and ammoniaThe biochar was heated gradually to 500–900 °C, using a heating rate of 10 °C  min−1, with nitrogen (99.99%); at 400 ml  min−1 purgingAfter the temperature reached the desired value, nitrogen was replaced by carbon dioxide (99.999%); 100 ml  min−1, or ammonia (99.999%); 80 ml  min−1 or  CO2–ammonia  (CO2 = 100 ml  min−1 and ammo-nia = 80 ml  min−1)Increased surface area significantly to about 627.15  m2  g−1 from 224.12  m2  g−1Introduced nitrogen-containing groups into the biocharZhang et al. (2014a)Ultrasonic treatment Ultrasonic sonicator Water bamboo biochar was exposed to ultrasound (frequency of 20 kHz and electric power of 65 W) for different irradiation timesAir saturated de-ionised water was employed in all testsA water bath was employed to maintain the water temperature at 25 °CThe surface area and pore volume increased from 56.3 to 141.2  m2  g−1 and 0.013 to 0.039  cm3  g−1, respectivelyAbility of adsorption increased upon 3.486 mg  g−1 of reactive black 5Nguyen et al. (2021)Low-frequency ultrasoundModification of biochar was achieved under 20 kHz low power ultrasound irradiationRadiation exposure periods are 30 s, 1, and 3 minExfoliated the biochar’s graphitic clustersCreated new microporesOpened the blocked poresEnhanced the functionalisation efficiencyBoosted the adsorption capacityChatterjee et al. (2019a)Chatterjee et al. (2018)A probe-type ultra-sonic vibratorBiochar dispersion was prepared by vibrating 3 g of biochar in 80 mL water in a 100 mL glass beaker, placed in a cooling bathAfter sonication, the aqueous suspension was passed through a 500 μm sieveThe sieved suspension was then centrifuged to keep the nanosized particles suspended in the supernatant based on Stokes LawThe suspension was placed in a 50 mL glass centri-fuge tube, centrifuged at 3500 g for 24 min, and then repeated to extract biochar-NPsIncreased the surface area of biochar from 0.76  m2  g−1 and its nano- form showed the largest surface area of 36.39  m2  g−1Pore volume was significantly lower than their macro- counterpartsOleszczuk et al. (2016)2391 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Ball milling is a simple and common approach used for enhancing the properties of biochar. Ball milling is a highly effective method for reducing the size of biochar to a nanoscale (less than 100 nm in size), which is referred to as nanobiochar (Wang et al. 2017a; Liu et al. 2018a). Nanobio-char has gained popularity in recent years due to its ability to combine the benefits of nanotechnology and biochar tech-nology, as well as its beneficial chemical and physical prop-erties. The rotational speed, ball-to-power mass ratio, and milling duration all have an effect on the final nanobiochar's particle size and surface energy (Ramanayaka et al. 2020).Nanobiochar is distinguished from pristine biochar by its substantially larger surface area, graphitic character and significantly negative zeta potential (Oleszczuk et al. 2016 ). Additionally, nanobiochar produced at low temperatures, such as 300 and 400 °C, followed by ball milling, has a surface area range of 5.6–47.2   m2  g−1, whereas nanobiochar produced at high temperatures, such as 450 and 600 °C, has a much larger surface area range of 342–430   m2  g−1 (Rama-nayaka et al. 2020; Lyu et al. 2018a). Ball-milled biochars had finer particle sizes of 140–250 nm vs 0.5–1 mm for unmilled biochar, and a higher concentration of oxygen-containing functional groups of 2.2–4.4  mmol   g−1 vs 0.8–2.9 mmol   g−1 for unmilled biochar (Lyu et al. 2019). However, due to the mobility of nanobiochar, off-site migra-tion of pesticides and other pollutants along the soil profile may pose a risk to groundwater (Wang et al. 2017a).Chemical modification methodsChemical modification is becoming more prevalent, most likely because it increases the surface area and enhances porosity of the biochar (Sahin et al. 2017). As a result, numerous chemical methods have been proposed to mod-ify biochar, including acid and alkali treatment. Increasing oxygen-containing functional groups, enhancing cation-exchange capacity, pore size, and surface area are the most important properties of biochar that are modified chemically. As a result of these modifications, biochar's ability to func-tion as a fertiliser is enhanced.Acid treatment of biochar is one of the most used chemi-cal strategies for removing impurities such as metals, increasing the number of mesopores, and increasing oxygen-containing functional groups such as hydroxyl, carboxyl, and others, thereby increasing its hydrophilicity and, ultimately, its adsorption capacity for polar adsorbates. Acids such as sulphuric, hydrochloric, nitric, and phosphoric acid, as well as weak acids such as oxalic and citric acid, are frequently used in acid treatment to modify biochar (Yang et al. 2019a ; Deng et al. 2020; Wang and Wang 2019). Alkali modifi-cation or chemical reduction refers to the process of acti-vating the surface of biochar with reducing agents such as sodium hydroxide, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate The surface area, total pore volume, introduced nitrogen-containing functional groups, and adsorption are the most important properties that are enhanced via physical modification. As a result of these modifications, biochar's ability to function as a fertiliser is improvedTable 1  (continued)Modification type Method of modification Modification agent Process of modification Key findings ReferencesBall milling Planetary ball mill machineBiochar was placed in a planetary ball mill machine (PQ-N2, Across International, New Jersey, USA) within agate jars (500 mL) with balls (diameter of 6 mm, 180 g in each jar) and operated at 300 rpm in ambient air and with rotation direction altered every 0.5 hThe specific surface areas of the ball milled-biochar were all greater than that of unmilled biocharLyu et al. (2018a)2392 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 2  Chemical techniques of biochar modification include acid and alkali treatmentsThe most important properties of biochar that are enhanced via chemical modification include oxygen-containing functional groups, cation-exchange capacity, pore size, and surface area. As a result of these modifications, biochar's ability to function as a fertiliser is enhancedModification type Modification method Modification agent Process of modification Key findings ReferencesChemical modification Acid treatment Phosphoric acidNitric acidBiochar samples were modified by adding concen-trated phosphoric acid or concentrated nitric acid or phosphoric acid and nitric acidAcid equivalence corresponded to 0.25 cmol  Kg−1Water solubility of biochar increasedNitrate and phosphate groups increasedImproved plant growth in calcareous soilsSahin et al. (2017)Sulphuric acidNitric acidHydrochloric acidTea-waste biochar samples were modified by the addition of 10% sulphuric acid, 69% nitric acid, 5 M hydrochloric acid to 10 g of Tea-waste biochar at (50–60 °C)Oxygenated surface functional groups have a nota-ble contribution to cation-exchange capacity, especially at high pHAt basic pH, the functional moieties are deproto-nated, and surface complexation is promotedFor biochar-300, the highest cation-exchange capacity was observed when it was subjected to nitric acid modification, and for biochar-500, the highest value was observed in hydrochloric acid modificationLow point of zero charge values allow for the sorption of cationic species under mildly acidic conditions through electrostatic interactionsPeiris et al. (2019)Hydrochloric acidSulphuric acidHydrogen peroxideThe biochar modification was performed with a Soxhlet extraction apparatus in which 200  cm3 of liquid was used. The modifiers were added into a 250  cm3 round bottom pyrex flask with 10 g of biochar and reacted at room temperature with a water condenser for 24 h– The modified biochar was washed with de-ionised water and dried in an oven at 105 °CProvided a relatively high ammonium cation sorp-tion capacityOxygen-containing groups on the biochar surface increasedThe inorganic minerals were washedPolarity increasedAromaticity decreasedWang et al. (2020a)Alkali treatment Potassium hydroxidePotassium carbonateSodium hydroxideSodium carbonateThe biochar was impregnated with several alkali agents at a mass ratio of 3:1 (alkali chemical/biochar)The chemically activated biochar was then heated under nitrogen at different temperatures 600, 700, 800 and 900 °C for 3 hAfterwards, the biochar sample was cooled, washed with hydrochloric acid and distilled water and oven-dried at 105 °CThe introduction of oxygenated groups on biochar surfaceAn increase in the surface basicityThe temperature to beyond 700 °C was not effective in improving the nitric oxide uptake capacityThe use of alkali agents improved the nitric oxide adsorption capacity of the modified biochar by 3.3–3.5 times that of the parent biocharAnthonysamy et al. (2021)Potassium hydroxide Biochar was soaked in 30% potassium hydroxide at room temperature for 8 hFurthermore, it was washed with purified water to neutrality and dried at 105 °CPore size was mainly mesoporousSurface area increased from 194.77 to 712.07  m2  g−1Liu et al. (2020a)2393 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3(Anthonysamy et  al. 2021), and potassium hydroxide (Anthonysamy et al. 2021; Liu et al. 2020a) . Furthermore, alkaline materials containing hydroxide ions or an amino group react with the functional groups on the surface of bio-char, enhancing the sorption of negatively charged species (Ahmed et al. 2016), such as nitrate and phosphate ions, which are critical in the field of plant nutrition. Addition-ally, alkali treatment significantly alters the specific surface area and porosity of biochar (Liu et al. 2020a; Kumar et al. 2021b).Mineral–biochar composite fertilisersMineral–biochar composites are produced by combining minerals such as zeolite, clay, and layered double hydroxide minerals with biochar to form composites with unique and useful properties. Then, as shown in Fig.  2, chemical fertilis-ers are added with the mineral–biochar composite to create mineral–biochar composite fertilisers (Wang et al. 2021a; Zhao et al. 2021a; Premarathna et al. 2019; Lesbani et al. 2021; Azimzadeh et al. 2021).Zeolite‑biochar composite fertilisersZeolites are crystalline hydrated aluminosilicates with pores comparable to those of molecules in frameworks based on extensive three-dimensional oxygen ion networks (Matsuda 2018). Zeolites exhibit extraordinary physical and chemical properties, including mechanical strength and high adsorptive ability. These attributes make them extremely useful in various applications, including agriculture and environmental protection. As a result, scientists developed zeolite–biochar composites to combine the benefits of zeolite and biochar, where biochar is more biologically and chemi -cally stable compared to the original biomass resources used, in addition to serving as a source of long-term stored carbon in soil (Zhao et al. 2021a; Pavelic et al. 2018; Hina et al. 2015). According to Hina et al. (2015), biochar made from pine chips is a more effective ammonium sorbent than pine bark for wastewater treatment but is approximately 40% less effective than commercially available zeolite. This demonstrates the importance of using a zeolite–bio-char composite as a carrier for chemical fertilisers. Another study reported that following a 90-day incubation period, the application of zeolite–biochar composites increased the soil pH from 5.60 to 8.33 and cation-exchange capacity from 6.5 to 61.28 cmol   kg−1, indicating the possibility of using this composite as a fertiliser in combination with chemical fertilisers, in addition to stabilising pollutant metals such as cadmium, lead, and arsenic (Zheng et al. 2020).Clay‑biochar composite fertilisersClay minerals are members of the hydrous layer alumi-nosilicate family of minerals, which are distinguished by their layered structures composed of polymeric silica tet-rahedral sheets connected to octahedral sheets (Bibi et al. 2016 ). Additionally, clay is distinguished by its ability to be modified to customise its properties for specific applications such as nutrient or pollutant adsorption (Abbas et al. 2017a). Furthermore, clay minerals are characterised by their small particle size and high surface-to-volume ratio. Moreover, they are readily available and inexpensive materials with exceptional chemical and mechanical stability (Wal et al. 2021). As a result, clay and biochar can be integrated to produce a composite that achieves the desirable properties of both materials.In a study conducted by Liu et al. (2019b), a clay-biochar composite fertiliser was prepared via incorporating urea, bentonite and polyvinyl alcohols into biochar through hydro-thermal synthesis. This synthesis resulted in interactions between biochar, urea, bentonite, and polyvinyl alcohols, contributing to the final products' water retention and con-trolled release properties. The cumulative release of nitrogen was reported to be 61.3% within 28 days when incubated in water and 54.6% within 98 days when incubated in soil, Fig. 2  Steps of the production of a mineral-biochar composite fertilisers. Mineral-biochar composites are initially created by combining minerals like zeo-lite (O1), clay (O2), and layered double hydroxide (O3) with biochar. Additionally, chemi-cal fertilisers are combined with the synthesised mineral-biochar composites (O4) to form mineral-biochar composite fertilisers (O5)2394 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3demonstrating the favourable controlled-release proper -ties of the clay-biochar composite fertiliser. This behaviour could be explained by the fact that nutrients interact with composites in various ways. For example, ammonium can bind to biochar through Van der Waals adsorption, electro-static attraction, the reaction of ammonium with acidic func-tional groups to form amides and amines, and π–π electron donor–acceptor interactions. Another study found that add-ing clay and iron oxide to biochar increases infiltration and the formation of clay and metal oxide nanostructures within the pores of the biochar, which promotes redox reactions that can have a significant effect on nutrient availability and uptake in plants, as well as the growth of beneficial microor -ganisms that improve the rhizosphere's health (Rawal et al. 2016).According to Chen et al. (2017a), an effective composite of montmorillonite and biochar was produced. Both biochar and montmorillonite contributed to the texture and structure of the surface, resulting in a varied surface and an array of adsorptive sites. Ammonium adsorption was attributed in part to ammonium surface adsorption on montmorillonite and biochar, and in part to ammonium intercalation within the montmorillonite interlayer space. Phosphate adsorption, on the other hand, was governed by electrostatic attrac-tion and ionic bonding on the montmorillonite-biochar composite.Layered double hydroxide‑biochar composite fertilisersEnvironmentally friendly and biocompatible layered double hydroxide clays, also known as anionic clays, have stimu-lated researchers' interest due to their superior ion exchange capacity and ability to intercalate anions, as well as their high adsorption capacity and surface area characteristics (Chatterjee et al. 2019b). These characteristics are critical because certain nutrients, such as nitrates and phosphates, are available to plants as anions. Zhang et al. stated that through weak interactions, layered double hydroxide–bio-char composites adsorbed nutrients such as ammonium and nitrate (i.e. van der Waals force electrostatic attraction and hydrogen bonding). As a result, nutrients are gradually released, while immobilised pollutants such as heavy metals are strongly bound via more compact mechanisms such as ionic and coordinate bonding (Zhang et al. 2018a). Accord-ing to Azimzadeh et al. ( 2021 ), phosphorous-loaded layered double hydroxide-biochar significantly increased available phosphorous, corn shoot and root dry matter, and phospho-rous uptake when compared to control.Application methods and ratesBiochar can be used in a single application and will provide benefits for many years due to its stability. Additionally, because biochar matures in soil and its interaction with soil varies over time, it is unnecessary to use biochar at each crop sowing. However, field data are currently unavailable to determine whether applying a large dose of biochar initially is more beneficial or whether yearly administrations at lower rates are preferable (Oelbermann et al. 2020).Researchers identified a variety of techniques for apply -ing biochar and fertilisers to the soil, including spot, ring, broadcast and incorporate (Yeboah et al. 2020). In addition to these methods, biochar can be applied directly or in com-bination with agricultural residues, compost, manure, and seed (Murtaza et al. 2021). Numerous studies have discov -ered that biochar application methods significantly affect soil characteristics. For instance, of the three distinct biochar application techniques (spot, ring, and broadcasting), the spot and ring approaches achieved the greatest improvement in observed parameters when compared to the control. The spot was the most effective method, followed by the ring, and finally the broadcasting method. As a result, when using biochar to enhance the agronomic performance of cowpea in a moderately acidic sandy soil, the application technique is critical for achieving benefits such as increased growth and yield, as well as soil fertility (Yeboah et al. 2020).Another study reported that adding biochar and compost to the soil as a spot treatment reduced broomrape attacks on fava bean plants. Not only was a suppressive effect against broomrape achieved, but also the economic yield and protein content of fava bean were maintained, demonstrating the robust effect of spot placement of biochar and compost on fava bean sustainability in broomrape-infested areas (Saudy et al. 2021). Xia et al. (2022) stated that the optimal treat-ment was 100 mg   kg−1 nitrogen fertiliser applied with bio-char in deep placement modes, with a maximum nitrogen use efficiency of 46.23%. Additionally, biochar may facili-tate the growth of corn in acidic soils by improving poor soil (low pH and low fertility).Impact on agriculture and the environmentIn addition to being a source of plant nutrients, biochar-based fertilisers can be critical in amending and enhancing certain soil physical and chemical properties. This is particu-larly applicable in soils with unfavourable characteristics for agriculture, such as sandy soils and highly weathered soils, such as those found in the tropics, as illustrated in Table  3, as well as having an effect on microbial biomass (Li et al. 2020a).They can also benefit the environment, particularly slow-release biochar-based fertilisers, by reducing nutrient leach-ing and the high need for access to water sources, as well as by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have a detri-mental effect on the ecosystem and human health. However, some studies (Knoblauch et al. 2021; Kavitha et al. 2018) 2395 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3have indicated that adding pristine biochar may negatively affect nutrient availability and crop productivity, which must be considered when preparing these fertilisers. These are largely determined by the properties of the biochar used (Gonzaga et al. 2018), and the characteristics and location of the soil (Puga et al. 2020b; Jeffery et al. 2017), as well as the rate at which the biochar has been added (Chrysargyris et al. 2020 ; Yooyen et al. 2015 ). As a result, applying biochar and biochar-based fertilisers to agricultural soils requires a thor -ough assessment of their effects on soil characteristics and crop production, which should ideally be conducted under field conditions with actual application rates.Biochar-based fertilisers are distinguished from conven-tional fertilisers by their ability to gradually release nutrients into the soil, resulting in a significant reduction in nutri-ent loss due to leaching or volatilisation and an increase in nutrient utilisation efficiency (Puga et al. 2020b; Ndoung et al. 2021). Researchers reported a 12% increase in nitrogen utilisation efficiency when biochar-based nitrogen fertilisers were compared to urea alone in a study evaluating the effect of biochar-based nitrogen fertilisers on tropical soils. As a result, the average yield of corn increased by approximately 26%. The slow release of nitrogen from the biochar-based fertiliser was associated with an increase in nitrogen use effi-ciency and corn production (Puga et al. 2020b). Liao et al. demonstrated that biochar-based controlled-release nitrogen fertilisers successfully increased oilseed rape yield (16.6%) and nitrogen-use efficiency (58.79%) by gradually releas-ing nitrogen and modulating the abundance of functional microbes via increased soil nitrification and decreased deni-trification when compared to a urea-only treatment. Biochar-based controlled-release nitrogen fertilisers increased soil nitrate, which increased rape nitrogen absorption and utilisa -tion efficiency, thereby enhancing oilseed rape development and grain production (Liao et al. 2020).Another study found that when biochar was enriched with phosphorus in a 50:50 (w/w) ratio using both the hot and cold methods, there was a significant increase in soil extract-able phosphorus and total nitrogen, as well as high organic content, crop growth, yield, and modulation, when compared to the control and the other treatments (Wali et al. 2020). Abbas et al. (2017b) stated that biochar was applied at a rate ranging from 1 to 10% of the urea fertiliser weight in each treatment. The results indicated that using 10% biochar in combination with the recommended dose of urea increased plant height, spike length, number of tillers, number of spikelets per spike, grain yields, biomass yield, harvesting index, nitrogen concentration and uptake in grain and straw, and nitrogen agronomic efficiency by 6, 11.1, 32, 55.3, 5.4, 38, 19, 9, 19, and 26%, respectively, in comparison with the treatment using the recommended rate of nitrogen without the addition of biochar.On the other hand, several field studies demonstrated that applying biochar to agricultural soil significantly reduced nitrate, potassium, phosphorous, magnesium, sodium, and calcium leaching (Vijay et al. 2021). Li et al. (2019a) reported that tobacco stems were pyrolysed to produce bio-char. It was then added to the compound fertiliser at four Table 3  Effects of biochar application on soil propertiesThis includes bulk density, porosity, moisture content, pH, cation-exchange capacity and erosion resistance. The results demonstrate the critical role of soil type, biochar type, and application rate in improving these propertiesProperties of soil Type of soil Period of field experi-mentType of feedstock Suitable applica-tion rate of biocharEffect of biochar applicationReferencesBulk density Sandy loam Alfisol 2 years Hardwood 30 t  ha−1Decreased by 74.7% Aruna et al. (2020)Porosity Chinese black soil 3 years Corn straw 31.5 t  ha−1Increased Jin et al. (2020)Moisture content Haplic Luvisol 3 years Pinewood 50 t  ha−1Increased Medyńska-Juraszek et al. (2021)pH Acid soil 120 days Wood 20 t  ha−1Decreasing soil acidityShetty and Prakash (2020)Cation-exchange capacityRedLatosol (clayey texture)Red-Yellow Latosol (medium texture)9 months Coffee husk (Pyro-lysed at 350 °C)20% Doubled the soil cation-exchange capacity (from 19.1 to 40.4 cmolc  kg−1)Increased the soil cation-exchange capacity by ten-fold from 2.3 to 23.1 cmolc  kg−1Domingues et al. (2020)Erosion resistance Highly weathered soil105 days Waste wood of white lead trees5% (wt/wt) Reduced soil loss by 64%Jien and Wang (2013)2396 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3concentrations of 0%, 3%, 9%, and 15% (w/w). In compari-son with the control, the leaching loss of total nitrogen from the soil decreased by 8.36, 6.72, and 6.45%, respectively, and the loss of total potassium from the soil decreased by 9.18, 9.31, and 11.82% in the 3, 9, and 15% biochar with fertiliser treatments, respectively. However, because phos-phorus has a low mobility in the soil profile, biochar-based fertilisers had little effect on phosphorus leaching. Addition -ally, biochar-based fertilisers increased ammonium, avail-able phosphorous, and available potassium immobilisation in the soil profile.Nitrous oxide has been estimated to have a global warm-ing potential of 298 and 11.9 times that of carbon dioxide and methane, respectively (Domeignoz ‐Horta et al. 2018 ). Additionally, nitrous oxide is a persistent greenhouse gas that can remain in the atmosphere for 100 years, with atmos -pheric nitrous oxide concentration increasing by 0.2–0.3% annually (Grutzmacher et al. 2018). Nitrous oxide is pro-duced during the incomplete conversion (nitrification) of ammonium to nitrate by ammonium-based nitrogen fertilis-ers (Dawar et al. 2021).Recently, biochar has been proposed as a means of miti-gating climate change by reducing nitrous oxide emissions. In this regard, Grutzmacher et al. (2018) stated that when ammonium nitrate was used in combination with biochar, nitrous oxide emissions were reduced sevenfold in sewage sludge biochar treatment. Additionally, the fertiliser emis-sion factor decreased with biochar amendments, ranging from 0.01 to 0.08% of the nitrogen emitted as nitrous oxide, demonstrating biochar's potential to reduce fertiliser-induced nitrous oxide emissions, with sewage sludge biochar mitigat-ing 87% of soil-fertiliser emissions. According to another study, nitrous oxide emissions were significantly reduced by 31.4–39.9% when a fertiliser was applied in combination with biochar, compared to chemical fertiliser application alone at 200 kg nitrogen   ha−1, and the nitrous oxide emission factor of the applied nitrogen was reduced from 1.36% when only chemical fertiliser was applied to 0.71–0.85% when fertiliser plus biochar application was used. These findings suggest that applying nitrogen fertiliser and biochar at an appropriate rate are viable strategies for reducing field-scale nitrous oxide emissions (Niu et al. 2017).SummaryThis section demonstrated the potential utilisation of bio -char within agronomic applications. Agriculture is the most common biochar-based carbon sink application discussed in the literature, where a variety of benefits can be extracted in addition to serving as a long-term carbon reservoir. How -ever, the impact on soil and crops is inconsistent and gener -ally depends on the type of feedstock used and processing conditions employed for biochar production, the specific cropping system, and management practices. While biochar is not a source of nutrients in and of itself, its use as a nutri-ent carrier has garnered substantial attention in the scientific literature.Overall, our analysis shows that biochar-based fertilisers, a process that combines traditional fertilisers with biochar as a nutrient carrier, are a very promising and value-adding route for biochar utilisation within agronomy. Several prepa-ration strategies were explored, where various modification treatments were proposed for enhancing the biochar’s per -formance. It is critical to understand the impact of such treat-ments on the carbon stability of the biochar as well as the overall environmental footprint, and thus, detailed life cycle assessments need to be carried out to adequately determine the biochar’s carbon removal potential. In general, the utili-sation of biochar as a nutrient carrier is a highly recognised strategy, which can facilitate many agronomic benefits while allowing for long-term storage in soils. However, proficiency in biochar preparation is essential for synthesising a product that can be successfully used.Animal farmingBiochar value can be maximised if applied within animal farming prior to being used in various cascaded applica-tions and final long-term storage in soils. This section will explore the various areas where biochar can be utilised in the animal farming industry and will critically assess the merits and challenges highlighted in the literature. Furthermore, the technical requirements specific to this application will be presented.Utilisation of biochar as a feed additiveRecently, several scholars have investigated the effects of co-feeding biochar with animal diets on cattle, poultry, pigs, and fish (Abakari et al. 2020; Al-Azzawi et al. 2021; Schu-bert et al. 2021 ; Goiri et al. 2021 ; Kalus et al. 2020a ). Co-feeding with biochar increased milk production by 3.43% and protein–fat content by 2.63–6.32%, respectively, and reduced enteric methanogens in Australian dairy cattle by 30% (Al-Azzawi et al. 2021). Additionally, co-feeding with 2.5% biochar increased daily feed intake of laying hens, improved laying performance by 6%, and enhanced shell solidity and thickness by 10% and 6%, respectively (Kalus et al. 2020a).Similarly, Goiri et al. discovered that co-feeding broil -ers with biochar at a 30 g   kg−1 diet concentration increased daily weight gain, average body weight, and reduced feed conversion ratios compared to non-co-fed groups (Goiri et al. 2021). Furthermore, it has been shown to increase the survival and growth of aquatic fish (Mabe et al. 2018). 2397 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Moreover, co-feeding with biochar reduced Gallibacterium anatis and Campylobacter hepaticus pathogens in poultry as a result of biochar's inherent adsorption properties (Willson et al. 2019). Consequently, biochar may be a viable alterna-tive to antibiotics in the animal husbandry sector (Man et al. 2021). The unique properties of biochar may help maintain gut microbiota (methanogens) within its porous structure, thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions from ruminants (Al-Azzawi et al. 2021; Eger et al. 2018; Mirheidari et al. 2020), which are the primary source of agricultural green-house gaseous emissions, and thus positively influencing global climate change. Additionally, farm production may be increased as a result of decreased chemical fertiliser use, which arises from improved animal excreta that maximise soil fertilisation quality (Joseph et al. 2015; Kalus et al. 2019).In conclusion, research indicates that co-feeding with biochar can improve animals' production, growth, immu-nity, and blood profile; reduce pathogens and enteric methane generation by accelerating microbial fermenta-tion, and improve overall agricultural productivity; how -ever, research in this field is scarce. As such, this section focusses on the effects of various biochar substrates used as supplements (biochar co-feed) on farm animals, fish, and poultry, while also highlighting scientific gaps and areas for future research. The overall effects of co-feeding biochar are depicted in Fig.  3.Regulations for adopting biochar as a feed supplementThe feedstock used to produce biochar for co-feed supple-ments undergoes pyrolysis at temperatures ranging from 350 to 1100 °C (Man et al. 2021; Das et al. 2021). This thermal treatment, combined with the specific properties of the underlying biomass feedstock, results in biochar with a unique physicochemical structure, such as an exceptionally large surface area capable of capturing and holding minute particles, that serves as a habitat for microorganisms, as well as adsorbs undesirable compounds. Additionally, the pro-duced biochar contains a variety of surface functional sites and mineral components that have a variety of agricultural and environmental applications (Das et al. 2020a, b). As pre-viously discussed, the overall effect of the produced biochar is entirely dependent on the biomass type, temperature, and residence time. However, biochar used for feed applications must comply with certain requirements issued by official authorities. For instance, the European food safety authority regulates certain specifications for feed-grade biochar pursu-ant to specific feed regulations [Commission regulation (EC) No 178/2002 and 834/2007] (EBC 2012b).The European biochar certification foundation, com-monly referred to as EBC, is a well-known non-govern-mental organisation that establishes standards for sustainable biochar production in Europe. In general, various classes of biochar are promoted, based on their intended use, the unique characteristics of the produced biochar, and its toxi-cant content. It is critical to note that certified biochar that is permitted for use as a feed additive must be made from untreated and natural biomass (EBC, 2012b). Table  4 sum-marises the specific characteristics required for certification of feed-grade biochar following European biochar certifica-tion (EBC, 2012b).Effects of co‑feeding biochar on the performance of animalsFood additives, including amino acids, organic minerals, fatty acids, vitamins, and antibiotics, are frequently used Fig. 3  Advantages of co-feeding animals with biochar. The direct effects of adding biochar to animal feed include increased body weight and growth rate, improved microbial fermenta-tion, pathogen reduction, and decreased enteric methane emissions. Additionally, an indirect positive impact can be generated by improving the quality of fertilisation and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which would help to mitigate climate change2398 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3in animal farming to enhance the growth operation, pro-ductivity, immune status, and protein intake of the animals. Around 90% of biochar produced in Europe is used in agro-environmental activities such as animal husbandry (cattle and poultry farming), crop production, and environmen-tal remediation (Gerlach and Schmidt 2012). Biochar is pri-marily used as a feed supplement in the animal husbandry industry (Kammann et al. 2017). Biochar's annual use in agriculture is expected to increase by 12.5% over the next 5 years (Man et al. 2021). Feed-grade biochar is primarily added to feed at a rate of 0.1–4.0% of the daily feed intake (Man et al. 2021; O’Toole et al. 2016). As shown in Table  5, adding biochar to feed has the potential to increase feed intake and weight gain (Mirheidari et al. 2020; Sivilai et al. 2018); improve animal health (Bolan et al. 2021; Yıldızlı et al. 2021); facilitate toxin and contaminant detoxification, increase nutrient intake, decrease antibiotic residues, and decrease enteric methane release (Man et al. 2021; Schmidt et al. 2019b; Toth et al. 2016).Several scholars have examined the effect of co-feed-ing with biochar. For example, Castillo-González et al. concluded that adding biochar to ruminal fluid under in vitro  conditions improved substrate digestibility (Castillo-González et al. 2014). Similarly, pine biochar was found to improve in vitro nutrient utilisation, protein synthesis, and ruminal fermentation while decreasing methane production (Saleem et al. 2018). Co-feeding with 0.6% biochar made from rice husk enhanced the weight of cattle by 25% when compared to those receiving no diet supplementation (Leng et al. 2012a). Phongphanith and Preston (2018) reported that adding 1% rice husk biochar with probiotic yeast additives to cattle feed improved the diet conversion ratio significantly from 11.5 to 7.9 and increased animal weight by 60%.Additionally, supplementing 2–8% biochar with urea and molasses improved the feed conversion rate of cattle from 16.4 to 10.7% and increased weight by 43% (Saroeun et al. 2018). Winders et al. (2019) demonstrated that supplement-ing cattle diets with 0.8% biochar (on a dry matter basis) increased organic matter and fibre digestibility during the growing stage, while quadrupling dry matter intake during the finishing stage, as compared to non-supplemented diets. Furthermore, the authors discovered a decrease in enteric methane generation of 10.7 and 9.6% g   d−1 during the grow -ing and finishing stages, respectively. However, adding bio-char to an artificial rumen system did not affect total gas and methane production, nutrient disappearance, protein synthe-sis, rumen microbiota composition, or rumen fermentation (Tamayao et al. 2021).Similarly, adding pine biochar to the diet of heifers did not affect dry matter intake, nitrogen balance, tract digest-ibility, or methane production, but reduced protozoa counts and ammonia nitrogen by 0.5 and 1.0%, respectively, when compared to the control diet (Terry et al. 2019). Teoh et al. investigated the effect of daily additions of 400 and 800 mg of hardwood biochar to an in vitro artificial rumen. The addition of biochar had no effect on digestibility, total gas production, propionate, acetate, butyrate, rumen pH, or the rumen bacteria, archaea, or fungal biota. Using 800 mg bio-char, on the other hand, reduced methane emissions (Teoh et al. 2019). In conclusion, biochar feed additives have the Table 4  Biochar standards for obtaining the European certificate of feed-grade biocharAll parameter values are calculated at 88% (dry matter basis). The various criteria and their values are summarisedCriteria Biochar co-feed criteria valuesPolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons Less than 4 mg  kg−1Carbon content More than 80%Heavy metals Arsenic: Less than 2 mg  kg−1Lead: Less than 10 mg  kg−1Cadmium: Less than 1 mg  kg−1Mercury: Less than 0.1 mg  kg−1Benzo-a-pyrene Less than 25 µg  kg−1The dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls A start value of 0.35 ng TE  kg−1Polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans along with dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenylsLess than 1.25 ng TE  kg−1Polychlorinated dibenzo-para-dioxin/ Polychlorinated dibenzofurans A limit of 0.75 ng TE  kg−1Fluor Less than 150 mg  kg−1Dry matter, insoluble-, and crude- ashes Same as standard values imposed by EU regulations for feedCrude protein, crude fat, and crude fibre 0 g  kg−1 due to pyrolysis effectPaint and solvents FreeContaminants such as plastics, rubber, and electronic scrap Free2399 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Table 5  Utilisation of biochar as a co-feed in animal production, including a summary of biochar's potential for improving the performance of cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, poultry, and fish, as well as the conditions under which biochar is produced and the raw substrates usedAnimals Raw substrates Generation condition Amount of biochar usedMain influence ReferencesCattle Rice husks Gasification > 400 °C 0.6% of daily feed dry matterIncreased body weightReduced methane releaseLeng et al. (2012a)1% of daily feed dry matter with 4% rice distiller’s by-productIncreased weight gain by 15%Reduced feed conversion ratioPhongphanith and Pres-ton (2018)2–8% Increased weight gainReduced feed conversion ratioSaroeun et al.(2018)Pine trees 0.8 and 3% of dry feed matter0.8% improved organic matter and fibre digestibility and reduced methane generationWinders et al. (2019)Goats Rice husks Gasification > 400 °C 1% of daily feed dry matterNo influence on digestibility, feed intake, and nitrogen contentPhongpanith et al. (2013)Walnut shell and chicken manure Pyrolysis at 550 °C for 3 h0.5, 1, and 1.5% of diet dry matter1% walnut shell and 1.5% chicken manure biochar increased digestibility, milk yield, and methane emissionsMirheidari et al. (2019)Fibrous biomass Gasification > 400 °C 1.1% of daily feed dry matterIncreased body gainReduced feed conversion ratioIncreased dry matter digestibilityIncreased nitrogen retentionSilivong and Preston (2015)Sheep Lodgepole pine and quaking aspen Pyrolysis > 600 °C 2% of dry feed matterImproved dry matter digestibility and intake and volatile acetate productionMcAvoy et al. (2020)Pistachio by-product, walnut shell, and chicken manurePyrolysis temperatures (above 550 °C) for 3 h1–1.5% Improved feed conversion ratio and aver -age daily gainNo influence on dry matter intake, volatile fatty acid productions, rumen pH, and rumen protozoaMirheidari et al. (2020)Pigs Bamboo Pyrolysis > 600 °C 0.3% of dry feed matterImproved weight gain to 17.5%Improved the quality of marketable meatChu et al. (2013a)Spruce larch, beech, and oak-based biochar and oakNot mentioned 2% spruce larch, beech, and oak-based biochar and 2% oakImproved dry, organic matter, and fibre digestibilitySchubert et al. (2021)2400 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 5  (continued)Animals Raw substrates Generation condition Amount of biochar usedMain influence ReferencesPoultryChicken Woody green waste Pyrolysis at 550 °C 1, 2 and 4% in daily dietIncreased egg weight by 1, 5 and 4%, respectively– Improved feed conversion ratio by 9, 14 and 12%, respectivelyPrasai et al. (2018)Eucalyptus hardwood Lowered poultry pathogens (Campylobac-ter hepaticus and Gallibacterium anatis)Willson et al. (2019)Rice husks Gasification > 400 °C 1% in daily diet – Reduced coliforms and E. coli in litter and faeces– Reduced plasma triglyceridesHien et al. (2018)Woody waste Pyrolysis at 550 °C 4% in daily diet – Decreased Campylobacter jejuni– Increased egg weight by 3%– Improved feed conversion ratio by 8%Prasai et al. (2016)Broiler litter Gasification 2–4% No impact on weight gain and feed con-version ratioEvans et al. (2017)Beechwood Pyrolysis at 550 °C 2 and 4% – Increased feed conversion ratio by 8%– Increased average body weight by 7%Kalus et al. (2020b)Poultry litter Gasification > 400 °C 5 g  kg−1– Increased serum albumin– Decreased serum uric acid, andrestored body weightRashidi et al. (2020)Pine shaving Not mentioned 10–20% per litter No influence on performance, health, or litter nutrient content– Improved litter quality– Improved water absorptionLinhoss et al. (2019)Laying hen Beechwood biochar Pyrolysis at 550 °C 1 and 2% – Increased daily feed intake 6% increase in laying performance– Increased average egg mass– Increased in shell resistance to crushing and shell thickness– 1.5 and 3% biochar–aluminosili-cates–glycerine mixtures reduced and increased daily feed intake, respectivelyKalus et al. (2020a)Biochar–aluminosilicates–glycerin mixture 1.5 and 3%Turkey Miscanthus grass Anaerobic conditions at 400 °C0, 5, 10, or 20% of bedding– Increased body weight– Lowered feed intake– Increased body weight gain– Improved litter qualityFlores et al. (2021)2401 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3potential to adsorb gases, contribute to the modification of redox reactions, and act as a habitat for the colonisation of biofilms and the proliferation of microbiota. As a result, bio-char co-feeding has the potential to alter rumen fermentation characteristics and reduce enteric methane generation.Mirheidari et al. investigated the effect of supplementing the diet dry matter with 0.5, 1, and 1.5% walnut shell biochar and chicken manure biochar on rumen fermentation traits in dairy ewes. In comparison with the control, adding 1% walnut shell biochar and 1.5% chicken manure biochar to the in vitro study reduced methane emissions, total volatile fatty acid generation, and ammonia N, while raising pH. In in vivo research, supplementing dairy ewes with biochar at higher concentrations enhanced milk production, milk pro-tein, solids non-fat portion, blood glucose, dry matter, and fibre digestibility rates, and decreased gas emissions (Mir -heidari et al. 2019). Silivong and Preston determined that supplementing goats diets with 1.1% biochar increased their weight by 8.9%, improved their feed conversion ratio from 15.5 to 11.4, and improved their digestibility (Silivong and Preston 2015). McAvoy et al. (2020) investigated the effect of co-feeding quaking aspen and lodgepole pine biochar on the digestibility of the diet and overall sheep performance. They discovered that supplementing lambs' diets with bio-char boosted digestibility and intake, as well as acetate generation. However, these positive results did not imply considerable improvements in body weight gain or feed con -version efficiency. Similarly, supplementing fattening lambs' diets with 1% pistachio by-product, 1% walnut shell, and 1.5% chicken manure biochar enhanced feed conversion ratio and average daily gain compared to the control. The addi-tives, on the other hand, had no effect on dry matter intake, volatile fatty acid synthesis, rumen pH, or rumen protozoa (Mirheidari et al. 2020).Schubert et al. investigated diets supplemented with 2% spruce, larch, beech, and oak-based biochar and 2% oak biochar on the performance of growing pigs. The authors discovered that adding biochar to the diet improved dry matter, organic matter, and fibre digestibility, with a maxi-mal increase of 19.8 and 23.8% in crude fibre digestibility, respectively, as compared to the control (Schubert et al. 2021). Sivilai et al. (2018) demonstrated that co-feeding with 1% rice husk biochar enhanced the weight of pigs by 20.1% and the feed conversion ratio by 10.6%. Similarly, it was reported that co-feeding bamboo biochar enhanced unsaturated fatty acids and decreased saturated fatty acids, as well as improved the quality of swine carcasses (Chu et al. 2013b). Co-feeding pigs' diets with 0.3% biochar increased faecal microflora, particularly lactic acid and anaerobic bacteria, while decreasing Salmonella spp. and pathogenic coliform bacteria (Chu et al. 2013c). Chu et al. (2013a) demonstrated that adding 0.3 and 0.6% of bamboo biochar to pig feed decreased triglyceride, blood urea nitrogen, and Table 5  (continued)Animals Raw substrates Generation condition Amount of biochar usedMain influence ReferencesPoultry litter Gasification > 400 °C 6.2 or 6.9% of the diet– Improved pellet quality– Decreased live weight gain– Increased bone mineralisationEvans et al. (2017)FishJapanese flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) Bam-boo0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, and 4% in daily diet– Increased weight gain– Increased growth rate– Reduced feed conversion ratio– Increased protein efficiency ratioThu et al. (2010)African catfish (Clarias gariepinus)Palm kernel shell Microwave pyrolysis 0 g, 150 g, 300 g, 450 g per tank– Decreased ammonia (67%)– Decreased total suspended solids (68%)– Increased nitrogen uptake– Higher growth in lettuceSu et al. (2020)Tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus)Water hyacinth Pyrolysis conditions at 300 °C for 30 min0.5 and 1% Increased fish weight and length (opti-mum at fishes fed with 1% biochar mixed diet)Najmudeen et al. (2019)2402 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3lactate dehydrogenase levels in the blood while increasing immunoglobulin G, total serum antibody concentration, and Lactobacillus spp. Levels, as compared to the control.Reducing feed costs, increasing poultry growth, and minimising the adverse environmental impact are recent challenges affecting the poultry industry's sustainability. Kalus et al. (2020b) investigated the effects of co-feeding broiler chickens with biochar on their weight gain and feed conversion ratio. Beechwood biochar (2–4%) and a mixture of biochar, glycerin, and aluminosilicates (3–6%) were added to the broiler's diet. Biochar co-feed reduced ammonia emissions by 17%, raised feed conversion ratio by 8%, and only the lowest doses of biochar increased body weight, whereas larger concentrations had a marginal effect. In the same context, the researchers examined the effects of the same biochar/biochar mixtures on the performance of laying hens. Biochar addition enhanced daily feed intake by 6%, and increased shell resistance to crushing and shell thickness by 10 and 6%, respectively (Kalus et al. 2020a). By adding pine shavings biochar to the turkey's diet by 0, 5, 10, or 20%, body weight increased from 16.72 to 17.0 kg, feed intake decreased from 48.1 to 45.6 kg, and feed conversion ratio improved to 2.20 from 2.31 in the control (Flores et al. 2021). By incorporating chicken litter biochar at a rate of 6.2 or 6.9% into poultry diets, pellet quality was enhanced, feed conversion ratio was decreased, and bone mineralisa-tion was raised due to increased phosphorus and calcium bioavailability (Evans et al. 2015).Evans et al. reported that supplementing chick diets with 2% broiler litter biochar had no adverse effect on their per -formance and exhibited superior granulation characteristics and moisture retention capacity (almost 90%) as compared to those formulated with zeolite or bentonite (Evans et al. 2017). Co-feeding with wood biochar increased egg weights and feed conversion ratios in egg-laying poultry as compared to those fed without biochar (Prasai et al. 2017 ). Biochar's high surface area and porosity make it ideal for pathogen and toxicant control. Prasai et al. (2016) demonstrated that sup-plementing layer meals with 4% biochar made from wood reduced pathogenic Campylobacter jejuni  in the birds' intes -tine and increased egg weight and feed conversion ratio by 3.0 and 11.7%, respectively. Additionally, co-feeding with biochar can help eliminate toxins from the bird's gut and improve the intestinal flora and its vitality (Gerlach and Schmidt 2012). By feeding chicken with 1% rice husk bio-char, plasma triglycerides were diminished and omega-3 fatty acids were increased (Hien et al. 2018).Co-feeding with biochar in aquaculture has received relatively less attention. It was observed that feeding 0.5% bamboo biochar to Paralichthys olivaceus (juvenile Japanese flounder) enhanced growth rate, weight gain, and feed and protein conversion ratios (Thu et al. 2010). Several authors reported increased body weight, growth rate, and feed conversion ratios following co-feeding with biochar at con-centrations ranging from 0.004 to 4% (Moe et al. 2009; Lan et al. 2016; Quaiyum et al. 2014). Najmudeen et al. (2019) examined the effects of co-feeding with 0.5 and 1% water hyacinth biochar on Oreochromis mossambicus fish aqua-culture and discovered an increase in fish weight and length, with the greatest increase occurring at 1% biochar content. Abakari et al. (2020) investigated the influence of biochar on the tilapia bio-floc technology system. The researchers discovered no adverse effect on fish growth or performance and observed an improvement in water quality parameters such as total suspended solids when biochar treated fish were used compared to the control.Biochar functions as a co‑feeding additiveMitigation of  enteric methane Methane, carbon dioxide, fluorinated gases, and nitrous oxides are the primary con-tributors to greenhouse gas emissions. Around 4 billion ruminants are raised worldwide, including 1.7 billion cattle and buffalos and 2.2 billion sheep and goats (Searchinger et  al. 2021). Ruminants have a rumen, which is capable of using cellulose by microbial communities. Through the action of anaerobic bacteria, "enteric methane" is released from the rumen. Enteric methane emissions from domestic animals were estimated to reach 100 million tonnes of car -bon dioxide-equivalent in 2018, accounting for more than a quarter of agriculture-related emissions, and is projected to increase by 50% by 2050 (Searchinger et al. 2021). Cat-tle and buffalos account for over 85% of global emissions, whereas sheep and goats account for 12% (Searchinger et al. 2021; FAO, 2019). Methane is primarily released via eruc-tation, with trace amounts absorbed into the bloodstream and exhaled via the lungs (Danielsson et al. 2017).There are two types of methane-producing/utilising microbes in the rumen: methanogenic and methanotrophic archaea, which are responsible for enteric methane pro -duction. The addition of biochar promotes the growth of methanotrophs, which offers a habitat for methane oxidation within the gut, hence lowering enteric methane emissions in ruminants (Leng et al. 2012b). Another significant factor in lowering enteric methane production is the biochar's ability to adsorb and absorb gases (Danielsson et al. 2017; Pereira et al. 2014). Thus, regular co-feeding of biochar to animals can be an effective strategy for mitigating enteric methane emissions (Leng 2018).Incubation of biochar with ruminal fluid resulted in a 15% reduction in methane emissions (Leng et al. 2012b). Simi-larly, enteric methane generation was reduced by 11–17% when 9% biochar (w/w) was added (Hansen et al. 2012 ). In vivo  experiments demonstrated that adding 1% biochar (w/w) to cattle diets reduced methane release by 11–13% 2403 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3(Leng et al. 2012a). Another study reported that adding bio-char and combining it with nitrate reduced methane release by 22 and 41%, respectively (Leng et al. 2012b). Addition-ally, co-feeding cattle with 3.8% biochar (w/w) resulted in a reduction of 12.6 L of methane per animal per day (Khoa et al. 2018). Winders et al. (2019) revealed that adding 0.8% biochar to cattle's diet reduced enteric methane generation by 9.5% and 18.4% g   kg−1 dry matter intake, respectively, throughout the growth and finishing stages. Saleem et al. (2018 ) concluded that adding 0.5% biochar to an in vitro  rumen experiment resulted in a 25% reduction in methane production (mg   d−1). In conclusion, biochar co-feeding has been shown to effectively reduce enteric methane release from rumens in both in vivo and in vitro experiments.Elimination of  contaminants in  livestock Biochar can remove various pollutants from the environment, including heavy metals, antibiotics, organic chemicals, and microplas-tics (Gopinath et al. 2021; Wang et al. 2019a). Animals are mostly contaminated by pollutants in their feed and water, such as insects, environmental contaminants, and diverse microbial activity. Rashidi et al. (2020) showed that diets supplemented with 5 g   kg−1 biochar made from poultry lit-ter adsorb and restore the body weight of broiler chickens suffering from aflatoxicosis, as well as increase the bird's performance. Co-feeding of layers with 2% biochar (w/w) significantly decreased the incidence of Gallibacterium anatis and Campylobacter hepaticus compared to non-sup-plemented control diets (Willson et al. 2019). Similar reduc-tions in Campylobacter jejuni were reported in pullet guts co-fed with biochar (Prasai et al. 2016). Biochar's adsorp-tion capacity for contaminants is primarily determined by its specific surface area, functional groups, and sorption char -acteristics (Oh and Seo 2016).Utilisation of biochar as a litter amendmentBedding is essential for animal health and performance, particularly in the poultry industry, but it can also have a significant environmental impact after its intended use, such as an alternative energy source or a soil amendment agent. Biochar can be added to the animal's diet and the impact on litter evaluated, or it can be directly applied to the litter or animal bedding.Linhoss et al. investigated the effect of pine shavings bio-char (0.97 kg   m2) on litter quality and broiler performance. The authors reported that adding biochar to the litter had no negative impact on the health and performance of the birds; however, biochar at 10–20% increased the water holding capacity of the litter by 21.6 and 32.2%, respectively, when compared to litter without biochar, which was attributed to the biochar's water retention capability (Linhoss et al. 2019 ). A similar study indicated that treating turkey litter with 20% biochar improved the bird's performance and health (Flores et al. 2021). The essential aspect that impacts overall adsorp-tion capacity is the biochar's specific properties, particularly large surface area (Linhoss et al. 2019; Liu et al. 2017a). Biochar addition to the litter, on the other hand, may have little effect on the pen's environmental conditions, such as ammonia (Flores et al. 2021; Ritz et al. 2011). Increasing the amount of biochar in the litter, however, may increase nitrogen adsorption (Flores et al. 2021).Agyarko-Mintah et al. studied the effect of co-composting poultry litter and straw with biochar made from poultry litter and biochar made from green waste. The in situ  greenhouse gas analysis demonstrated a decrease in nitrous oxide emis-sions of 5.0 and 4.2 g   N2O–N   kg−1 of total nitrogen, respec-tively, for the poultry litter-biochar and green-waste-biochar-amended beddings, compared with 14.0 g   N2O–N   kg−1 of total nitrogen for the non-amended bedding. Similarly, the methane emissions were reduced to 18- and 12-mg  CH4–C  kg−1 of total carbon, respectively, compared with 80  CH4–C  kg−1 of total carbon for the control. Total green-house gas emissions over the entire process were 63, 50, and 183 kg carbon dioxide-eq   t−1 (dry weight basis) for poultry litter-biochar-amended bedding, green waste-bio-char-amended bedding, and the control, respectively. The enhanced removal capacity of biochar-amended bedding was attributed to the interaction/adsorption of nitrogen and organic materials with abundant functional groups on the biochar’s surface (Agyarko-Mintah et al. 2017).Utilisation of biochar for aquatic wastewater treatmentAquaculture is typically associated with contaminated waste-water discharge, making it one of the most polluting indus-tries. Nutrients (nitrate, ammonia, phosphate, and organic compounds), antibiotic residues and resistance genes, and pathogens are typically found in aquaculture water (Abdel-Tawwab et al. 2019; Mahari et al. 2022). Pollution, eutrophi-cation, algal blooms, and severe changes in the ecosystem are common outcomes of discharged compounds (Granada et al. 2016 ). In an aquaponic tank containing African cat-fish, Su et al. investigated the ability of biochar as a biofilm niche for nitrifying bacteria to remove water contaminants. The researchers reported a 67 and 68% in ammonia and total suspended particles, respectively. Biochar addition also increased lettuce growth by 0.0562% per day by rais-ing the pH of the system to 6.8, assisting in the conversion of ammonia to nitrate, and improving nitrogen utilisation by the lettuce. Furthermore, the biochar ensured that the catfish survival rate remained optimal at 100%. As a result, biochar application in aquaponics could be a viable approach for toxicant mitigation (Su et al. 2020).2404 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3In a similar study, Khiari et al. (2020) used biochar made from bamboo to reduce turbidity and suspended particles in tilapia grown in an aquaponics system. To absorb chromium, Mahmoud et al. combined biochar made from shrimp shells with graphene oxide gel (VI). At lower pH of 1, the great-est sorption capacity of 350.42 mg   g−1 was achieved. The adsorption of chromium by biochar was driven by the bio-char’s specific characteristics, such as electrostatic adsorp-tion, porosity, and abundant functional units, which resulted in removal rates of 98, 99.2, and 99.8% from wastewater, saltwater, and tap water, respectively (Mahmoud et al. 2021). Similarly, Chen et al. (2020b) employed crab shell biochar in combination with iron oxide nanoparticles to remove lead(II) and arsenic(III) from wastewater media and found that the contaminants adsorb at rates of 62.4 mg   g−1 and 15.8 mg   g−1, respectively. Removal of antibiotics, such as tetracycline, chloramphenicol, and sulphamethazine from water using biochar, was also verified in many reports (Gu et al. 2021; Krasucka et al. 2021; Hoslett et al. 2021).SummaryCo-feeding (the combination of biochar and animal feed) is a promising incorporation technology. This section dis -cussed the most important aspects of using biochar as a co-feeding material for animals like cattle, poultry, pigs, and fish. The effects of co-feeding with biochar on growth, gut microbiota, enteric methane production, egg yield, and endo-toxicant mitigations, as well as biochar's potential use as a litter amendment and for aquatic wastewater treat-ment, were thoroughly investigated. To conclude, our analy -sis demonstrated that significant value could be extracted through the use of biochar in animal farming applications, where the utilised biochar can then be further applied to soils for long-term storage while extracting additional agronomic value. The following key points, however, should be consid-ered as potential topics for further research:• There is an immediate need for research into the long-term toxicity of biochar in animals.• Further research into the mechanisms of health improve -ment and toxicant/pathogen elimination by biochar co-feeding is required.• Incorporating liquid manure storage with biochar can minimise greenhouse gas emissions, but more research is needed.• The use of biochar as a litter and bedding-amendment agent requires more research before and after it is released into the environment.• Full meta-analysis studies of biochar's application in live-stock farms are necessary.Anaerobic digestionThe utilisation of biochar within the anaerobic digestion process prior to long-term storage, potentially in soils, is another value enhancement strategy where various technical benefits can be extracted. Anaerobic digestion, a promising bioprocess for converting organic feedstocks into biometh-ane-rich gas, has been used to manage biomass and produce biogas (Zhao et al. 2021b). However, several challenges have limited the widespread adoption of this technology. Low methane efficiency, impurities such as hydrogen sulphide, high carbon dioxide release, operational instability, and unsatisfactory substrate degradation, for example, all nega-tively affect biogas recovery potential. As a result, operating efficiency must therefore be improved, and biogas produc-tion must be upgraded and maximised.Interestingly, biochar addition has been proposed as an effective and promising strategy for improving the treatment efficacy and operational stability of the anaerobic digestion process (Chiappero et al. 2020). Biochar supplementation has been demonstrated to alleviate inhibitors, enhance microbial activity, shorten the operational lag phase, and improve electron transmission between acetogens and meth -anogens (Chiappero et al. 2020 ; Pan et al. 2019). Biochar supplements, in particular, enhanced biogas generation by 22–40% and reduced the lag time by 28–64%. In addition, the abundance of methanogens and electro-trophic microor -ganisms were increased by 24.6–43.8% (Wang et al. 2018a). Compared to graphene, single-walled carbon nanotubes, and other carbon-based compounds, biochar is the most eco -nomically viable material since it can be made from waste feedstocks (Wang et al. 2021b).Similarly, biochar properties, which include enhanced porosity, large specific surface area, an abundance of func-tional groups, and an exceptional electron transfer capacity, provide it with an advantage over other substances in terms of enhancing the anaerobic digestion process (Kumar et al. 2021c). The physicochemical properties of biochar could be simply optimised during its production through the opti-mal selection of feedstock and processing conditions, such as pyrolysis temperature and residence time (Kumar et al. 2021c).Biochar production and subsequent use in anaerobic digestion can potentially have significant environmental ben-efits (Kumar et al. 2021d). Additionally, the direct addition of biochar to anaerobic digestion systems without the need for infrastructure upgrades adds another economic benefit, increasing biochar's popularity and potential in anaerobic digestion applications (Rasapoor et al. 2020). Overall, using the pyrolysis product (biochar) as an input to an anaero-bic digestion system would meet zero waste goals, ensur -ing material flow, energy conversion and recovery, gaseous 2405 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3emission reduction, soil preservation, and a circular econ-omy (Feng and Lin 2017).This section reviews research on the utility of biochar in the anaerobic digestion process. The specific objectives of this section are to (i) investigate the physicochemical prop-erties of biochar for use in the anaerobic digestion process, (ii) recognise the potential for biochar addition to anaero-bic digestion operations to improve stability and upgrade biomethane production, (iii) assess the potential for biochar addition to remove certain contaminants and impurities from anaerobic digestion systems, and (iv) introduce future work opportunities for biochar adoption and utilisation in anaero-bic digestion systems.Biochar characteristics and unique capabilities for anaerobic digestionAdsorptionThe type of biomass used, and the pyrolysis conditions sig-nificantly affect the porosity, surface area, and internal struc-ture of biochar, all of which influence its immobilisation and sorption capabilities (Zhao et al. 2021b ; Cantrell et al. 2012 ). The specific surface area correlates directly with pyroly -sis temperature; as such, a higher pyrolysis temperature increases the specific surface area of biochar (Pandey et al. 2020). The adsorption and immobilisation capabilities are therefore enhanced as a result of the high specific surface areas and extensive porosity. The specific surface area of biochar can be significantly enhanced (Windeatt et al. 2014), for example, increasing from 0.92   m2  g−1 of manure-derived biochar at 350 °C to 187   m2  g−1 at 700 °C (Lü et al. 2018).The exceptional sorption capacity of biochar enables the mitigation of contaminants such as ammonia, sulphide, and other inhibitors (Fig.  4), which inhibit anaerobic digestion methanogenesis (Antonangelo et al. 2021). Such inhibitors are adsorbed onto the surface of biochar via precipitation, electrostatic attraction, or ion exchange (Ambaye et al. 2021), where the hydroxyl, carbonyl, carboxylic, and amine groups present in the generated biochar are essential for the inhibitor to be removed (Ambaye et al. 2021). Thus, frequent biochar application promotes adsorption of the generated metabolites, thereby mitigating their unfavourable effect and improving the performance and stability of anaerobic diges-tion operations.Additionally, the immobilisation value of biochar benefits the survival of entire microbes; for example, it was dem-onstrated that each biochar pore could contain between 10 and 100 methanogens (Lü et al. 2016); thus, a linear rela-tionship between biochar addition and optimal methane production during anaerobic digestion was established(Qin et al. 2020 ). Numerous studies have established that metha-nogenic biota can easily persist in biochar pores (Pytlak et al. 2020). Sequencing analysis revealed that their variety was greater in biochar-added bioreactors than in control bioreac-tors (Chen et al. 2021a), enhancing gas generation potential.BufferingThe feedstock properties and the pyrolysis conditions are the primary factors affecting the alkalinity and pH of biochar (Li et al. 2019b). Almost all biochar produced exhibited an alka-line characteristic; however, certain biomass, such as saw -dust, presented neutrally to acidic pH biochar (Nzediegwu et al. 2021). By increasing the pyrolysis temperature, the pH and alkalinity of the resulting biochar are increased simultaneously (Fidel et al. 2017). This occurs due to the disintegration of fibre components (hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin) into alkaline minerals, such as inorganic alkalis and carbonates (Panahi et al. 2020). Additionally, the higher the heating rate of pyrolysis, the more alkaline the biochar (Nzediegwu et al. 2021).In this context, biochar's great buffering capacity has been demonstrated to overcome acidic and/or alkaline conditions often encountered during anaerobic digestion operations due to the high concentration of acidic and/or alkaline func-tional groups and metal ions. The fundamental rational for the ability of biochar to counteract acidic and/or alkaline disorder is due to functional groups involving carboxylic, amine, and phenolic groups being formed during the pyroly -sis process. Additionally, the metal ions present in biochar, such as potassium and sodium, as well as other "earth" met-als, particularly calcium and magnesium, contribute to the Fig. 4  Biochar's unique properties, including adsorption, precipita-tion, bonding, electrostatic interaction, and pore filling, enable bio-char to remove digestion inhibitors such as ammonia and sulphide2406 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3maximisation of the buffering value of biochar (Zhao et al. 2021b).Various authors demonstrated that the addition of biochar improved the stability and neutral capacity of the anaero-bic digestion system (Ma et al. 2020), which resulted in an increase in the maximum methane generation rate and a decrease in the lag time during anaerobic digestion of biowaste. For example, it was reported that the addition of 10 g   L−1 of substrate biochar to thermophilic semi-con-tinuous anaerobic digestion of food waste improved the pH value from 7.7 to 8.2 and mitigated the formation of total volatile fatty acids due to its buffering capacity (Lim et al. 2020). Similarly, a decreased lag phase of up to 44% and a 25% increase in methane productivity were reported as a result of the buffering effect of the 15 g   L−1 addition (Ma et al. 2020).In general, the buffering capacity of biochar can be deter -mined using the process reactions presented in Eqs. (1 –4), where  CxHyCOOH represents volatile fatty acids (Zhao et al. 2021b; Wang et al. 2017b).Electron deliveryThe exceptional electron transfer ability of biochar has been linked to its electrochemical functional groups (phenazine, pyridine, phenolic, and quinone) and associated π-electron onto biochar aromatic groups (Wang et al. 2018b). Addition-ally, biochar was identified as a material capable of accel-erating direct interspecies electron transfer (Wang et al. 2021b). Recent findings indicate that the quinone and hyd-roquinone functional groups contribute to the advancement of electron transfer between electron-donating acetogens and electron-accepting methanogens (Wang et al. 2021c). Addi-tionally, biological elements, such as electron shuttles and cytochromes, may facilitate electron transmission between biochar and electro-trophic microbes.The ability of biochar to transfer electrons is depend-ent on the type of feedstock and the pyrolysis tempera-ture (Zhao et al. 2021b). Specifically, the enhancement of biochar's electron delivery capability is linearly related to the increase in pyrolysis temperature due to the follow -ing factors: (i) the formation of a conductive graphite-like (1) NH+4+OH−=NH3⋅H2O(2) CO2+H2O=HCO−3+H+(3)CxHyCOOH +NH3⋅H2O=CxHyCOO−+NH+4+H2O(4)Ca(Mg)CO3+CxHyCOOH⇌/bracketleft.s1CxHyCOO/bracketright.s12Ca(Mg)+H2O+CO2network and numerous carbon sheets at a higher pyrolysis temperature increases the biochar conductivity and elec-tron transfer capability (Chacón et al. 2020 ); (ii) the cor -responding increase in the carbon concentration in the bio-char enhances its ability for electrical conductivity (Gabhi et al. 2017); (iii) the increasing proportion of hybridised carbon molecules in biochar, combined with the develop-ment of the π-electron, accelerate electron transfer (Klupfel et al. 2014); and ultimately (iv) the formation and recoupling of oxygen-donating functional groups may improve the aro-matic function and electron transfer potential with increased temperature (Zhang et al. 2019a).However, it has been reported that disintegrating the oxy -gen-containing working group into carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and water decreased the electron transfer ability at high pyrolysis temperatures (Zhang et al. 2019a). There-fore, graphitised structures and functional groups in bio-char are critical for increasing the material's electron transfer capabilities. Thus, optimising biochar pyrolysis conditions is important to enhance electron transfer potential during anaerobic digestion.Biogas upgrade and purificationCarbon dioxide removalThe raw biogas produced by anaerobic digestion is mostly composed of methane (45–70%), carbon dioxide (35–50%), hydrogen sulphide (0.1–4%), and water vapour, with trace amounts of other gases (ammonia, oxygen, and nitrogen) depending on the composition of the biomass influent (Kapoor et al. 2020; Ghosh et al. 2019). The presence of car -bon dioxide, hydrogen sulphide, and other gaseous contami -nants in biogas limits its industrial application for renew -able energy and cooking and reduces its calorific value. For example, purified methane has a calorific potential of 55.6 ×  103 MJ  m−3, compared to 21.9 MJ   m−3 for raw biogas (Ascher et al. 2019). As a result, the application of biogas has frequently been constrained by the cost of upgrading and purifying equipment (Li et al. 2017a). After refinement, upgraded biogas can be pumped into the public gas system, used as a transportation fuel, or converted further into elec-tricity and heat via a combined heat and power unit (Salman et al. 2019). Electricity can be sold to provide producers with additional financial benefits, depending on each country's policies (Sambusiti et al. 2013).To maximise the efficiency of biogas upgrading, some contaminants such as hydrogen sulphide and carbon diox-ide should be removed from raw biogas prior to applica-tion (Miltner et al. 2017; Sun et al. 2016). Traditionally, conventional methods such as water scrubbing, membrane separation, physicochemical absorption, and cryogenic sepa-ration have been employed to remove gaseous contaminants 2407 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3from biogas (Miltner et al. 2017; Sun et al. 2015). Typically, upgrading technologies incur energy and economic expenses equal to or greater than 50% of total methane generation (Petersson and Wellinger 2009; Browne et al. 2011). Bio-char has been recognised as a carbon dioxide adsorbent for both in situ (biochar added during anaerobic digestion) and ex situ applications (Sethupathi et al. 2017). As shown in Table  6, the sorption capacity of carbon dioxide on biochar can reach hundreds of mg   g−1, which is significantly greater than that of other adsorbents such as activated carbon; thus, biochar has been considered to be an effective adsorbent for carbon dioxide removal and biogas improvement due to its porosity and increased surface area. The many functional groups and alkalinity characteristics of biochar, in particular, may promote the chemical sorption of carbon dioxide (Saha and Kienbaum 2019).Similarly, various surface modifications and combina-tions have been proposed to enhance the upgrading perfor -mance and carbon dioxide removal efficiency of biochar, including element loading, chemical activation, and func -tional group amendment (Dissanayake et al. 2020; Tan et al. 2017 ). For instance, the carbon dioxide adsorption efficiency of ultrasound-stimulated biochar was roughly ninefold that of untreated biochar (Dissanayake et al. 2020). Pelaez-Samaniego et al. (2018) reported that sodium carbonate-impregnated biochar increased its hydrogen sulphide scrub-bing capacity by 37%. Notably, exhausted biochar can be regenerated (Farooq et al. 2018; Tan et al. 2015) or used as a valuable soil improvement material for sulphur-deficient soils (Sawatdeenarunat et al. 2016; Zhang et al. 2016a). For the purpose of atmospheric carbon removal, exhausted bio-char should preferably be applied to soils for secured long-term storage, however, potential contamination should be assessed. Thermal regeneration should be avoided as to eliminate any further carbon emissions.Additionally, biochar can significantly increase methane production and reduce the lag time associated with organic material degradation, as illustrated in Table  7. This posi-tive effect on anaerobic digestion operations are a result of the biochar's properties and functional groups, which enable it to remove inhibitors, sustain pH, and accelerate direct interspecies electron transfer (Qi et al. 2021a). Biochar may potentially be used as a carrier for hydrogenotrophic metha -nogens to convert carbon dioxide to methane. Sethupathi et al. investigated the effect of four distinct biochar types derived from various biomass sources (perilla leaf, soybean stover, Korean oak, and Japanese oak) on carbon dioxide removal in synthetic biogas containing 40% carbon dioxide and 60% methane (Sethupathi et al. 2017). The researchers determined that several types of biochar effectively removed carbon dioxide with the optimal removal achieved using perilla based biochar, although methane was not removed (Sethupathi et al. 2017).Direct utilisation of in situ corn stover biochar in anaerobic digestion improved performance, increased biomethane quality to more than 90% and eliminated carbon dioxide to the extent of up to 86% (Shen et al. 2015). Linville et al. (2017) reported that in situ addition of 0.96–3.83 g per gVS of fine biochar enhanced the methane content to 77.5–98.1% and eliminated 40–96% of the generated carbon dioxide when compared to non-biochar control reactors operating at different thermo-philic and mesophilic temperatures, respectively. Therefore, adding biochar to anaerobic digestion systems would signifi-cantly increase process stability and performance while sig-nificantly lowering the cost of biogas upgrading.Mitigating of hydrogen sulphide releaseBiogas contains hydrogen sulphide in concentrations rang-ing from 0.1 to 2.0% (v/v) depending on the feedstock type (Shanmugam et al. 2018). Hydrogen sulphide gas is cor -rosive to metal pipelines and is frequently hazardous to humans (Zhao et al. 2021b). The porous nature and large surface area of biochar are critical for hydrogen sulphide Table 6  Potential role of biochar in biogas upgradingBiogas can be upgraded by incorporating biochar into the anaerobic digestion system. Various kinds of biomass with varying properties can be used to produce biochar, which could then be successfully incorporated into anaerobic bioreactors. The removal efficiency of gaseous contami-nants varies depending on the type of biochar utilisedBiochar biomass Pyrolysis condition Specific surface area  (m2  g−1)Porous size  (cm3  g−1)Impurity removed Removal rate (mg  g−1)ReferencesRice straw 312.5 °C for 20 min 122.2 0.083 Carbon dioxide 57.5 Huang et al. (2015)Rice husk 550 °C for 30 min 263.4 0.209 Carbon dioxide 138.2 Chiappero et al. (2021)Sawdust 700 °C for 60 min 773 0.32 Hydrogen sulphide 54.8 Ma et al. (2021)Maple wood 500 °C for 10 min 161 0.095 Hydrogen sulphide 219 Choudhury and Lansing (2020)Pig manure 500 °C for 4 h 47.4 – Hydrogen sulphide 59.6 Xu et al. (2014)Food Waste and sludge 700 °C for 30 min 220.5 0.099 Hydrogen sulphide 66.6 Hervy et al. (2018)Corn stover 500 °C for 10 min 23.5 0.011 Hydrogen sulphide 238 Choudhury and Lansing (2020)2408 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3adsorption (Table  6). One gram of biochar applied to an anaerobic bioreactor can lower hydrogen sulphide emis-sions by approximately 78% (Wang et al. 2019b). Hydrogen sulphide adsorbs onto basic biochar (Sahota et al. 2018), as demonstrated by a significant pH reduction following hydrogen sulphide adsorption (Sahota et al. 2018). Several studies observed a decrease in the surface area and porosity of biochar following hydrogen sulphide sorption, confirming that the sorption efficiency of biochar is primarily induced by physical sorption onto its porous surface and is relatively associated with chemical oxidation (Sahota et al. 2018; Xu et al. 2014; Shang et al. 2013).Xu et al. investigated the ability of two biochars derived from sewage sludge and pig manure to mitigate hydrogen sulphide emissions. Under the same conditions, biochar derived from pig manure exhibited a greater capacity for hydrogen sulphide adsorption than biochar derived from sewage sludge (Xu et al. 2014). Kanjanarong et al. (2017) reported that adding biochar to a continuous stirred tank bio-reactor eliminated more than 98% of hydrogen sulphide at a pH of 7.98. The researchers determined that  H2S adsorption was primarily due to the hydroxide and carboxylic groups present on the biochar (Kanjanarong et al. 2017). Addition-ally, an experiment conducted in an aerobic environment indicated that hydrogen sulphide and oxygen could diffuse into the pores of biochar following their dissolution in the water film (Xu et al. 2014). Moreover, oxygen reacts with the dissolved hydrosulphide ions to form elemental sulphur, with further catalytic oxidation to sulphate, facilitated by the presence of certain metals such as sodium, potassium, iron, and magnesium.Enhancing the performance of anaerobic digestion operationsAlleviating volatile fatty acid accumulation and buffering potentialThe stability of the anaerobic digestion system is critical to the technology's performance. Accumulations of volatile Table 7  Performance of anaerobic digestion systems with varying types of biocharBiochar additives derived from a variety of biomass sources have the potential to increase biogas production and reduce the lag time required to reach the peak of methane production during the anaerobic digestion process. The optimal dosage may be 10 g  L−1 (w/w) of substratesBiochar materials Pyrolysis temperature Feedstock Biochar concentration Anaerobic digestion perfor -manceReferencesWheat straw, fruitwood, and chicken manure350, 450, 550 °C Chicken manure 5% Enhanced methane produc-tion by 69% at 550 °CPan et al. (2019)Manure 350 °C Air-dried manure 10 g  L−1Diminished lag phase and enhanced methane yield by 35.71%Jang et al. (2018)Fruitwoods 800 °C Food waste 0.25–2.5 g per g total solids Lowered lag phase by 36.3–54.0%; inoculum to substrate ratio at 0.8–2 improved the maximum methane generation aspect by 100–275%; Enhanced organic matter degradationCai et al. (2016)Pine sawdust 650 °C Food waste 8.3–33.3 g  L−1Declined lag phase by 36–41%; Increased hydro-gen and methane yield by 31% and 10%, respec-tively; Increased volatile fatty acid consumptionSunyoto et al. (2016)Forest waste 450 °C Sludge 0.5–12.0 g per g total solids 0.8 and 3.7 g per g VS improved methane generation by 192–61% during the first 16 d of digestionCimon et al. (2020)Wood-pellets mixed with timber waste800 °C Poultry litter 100% poultry litter total solidsDecreased lag phase by 41%; Improved maximum daily methane generation by 136%Indren et al. (2020)Rice straw 260 °C Dead pig carcass 2–10 g  L−1Improved biogas yields up to 61–91%Xu et al. (2018)2409 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3fatty acids would shift anaerobic digestion systems into an unstable state. The acetogenic and methanogenic consorti-ums often correct the volatile fatty acid production pattern by converting volatile fatty acids to methane and carbon dioxide (Zhang et al. 2014b). However, organic overloads of easily biodegradable feedstocks accelerate the synthesis of volatile fatty acids, resulting in acidic conditions and poten-tially anaerobic digestion failure due to increased hydrogen production (Li et al. 2020b; Ren et al. 2018).Additionally, excessive synthesis of volatile fatty acids inhibits methanogenesis. Several treatment technologies and approaches have been proposed to address this issue, including constructing a bioreactor with easily biodegrada-ble influent and pH buffering additives (Zhang et al. 2018b). To compensate for the pH drop, co-digestion with a substrate with a high buffering capacity has been employed (Gong et al. 2020). However, it remains a significant challenge to establish a stable, simple, and cost-effective strategy for developing the buffering capability of anaerobic digestion systems. Biochar is proposed as a viable option due to the following reasons: (i) it can be delivered via an environ-mentally friendly and cost-effective approach, and (ii) its physicochemical properties can be optimised to operational conditions (Chiappero et al. 2020; Fagbohungbe et al. 2017). Thus, biochar can be employed effectively as a promising additive to enhance the breakdown of volatile fatty acids.Biochar's buffering capacity is primarily determined by various fundamental reasons listed in Eqs. (1 –4) (Chiappero et al. 2020). First, the lower pH value caused by the forma-tion of volatile fatty acids can be offset by some functional groups in the biochar, where the amine group adsorbs hydro-nium ion and acts as an electron acceptor media. Biochar's exceptional buffering capability against the formation of vol-atile fatty acids in anaerobic digesters operating at a higher organic loading rate was previously reported (Ma et al. 2020). Second, the inorganic metals contained in biochar, such as calcium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, silicon, iron, aluminium, and sulphur, can contribute to the biochar's alkalinity characteristics (Zhang et al. 2018b). In particular, the presence of earth elements, particularly magnesium and calcium, and other metals such as potassium and sodium, as well as active functional groups within the biochar, is a critical aspect for sustaining its buffering function (Wang et al. 2017b).Jang et al. examined the effect of biochar produced from dairy manure on anaerobic digestion at temperatures of 20, 35, and 55 °C. The researchers observed reduced volatile fatty acid volumes and higher methane output in all investi-gated settings, owing to the presence of alkali metals, such as calcium and magnesium, and biochar's alkalinity poten-tial (Jang et al. 2018). Due to the abundance of alkaline metals and functional groups in vermicompost-derived bio-char, Wang et al. observed that it improved the buffering capacity of the anaerobic digestion system fed with high organic loads of chicken manure and kitchen waste (Wang et al. 2017b).Wei et al. discovered that 3500–4700 mg   L−1 calcium carbonate alkalinity increased methane yield and total solids removal from sludge in corn stover-biochar-added digesters (Wei et al. 2020a). Ambaye et al. (2020a) demonstrated an increase in methane generation and total volatile fatty acids elimination when fruit waste anaerobic digestion was sup-plemented with sludge-derived biochar. Finally, biochar may accelerate the transfer of electrons between syntrophic bac-teria and methanogens, hence increasing biogas production and system stability (Wang et al. 2021b, d). These electro-trophic microbes may be successfully enhanced via the regu-lar use of biochar; additionally, direct interspecies electron transfer may improve volatile fatty acid breakdown (Wang et al. 2021b, d). Additionally, the electron transfer mecha-nism between bacteria and archaea facilitates the syntrophic conversion of many organic particles to methane (Lovley and Science 2011).In summary, as compared to the direct interspecies elec-tron transfer syntrophic ability and the action of func-tional groups on the biochar surface, the attractive buffering capability of biochar is necessary to correct volatile fatty acid accumulation during the anaerobic digestion operation (Wang et al. 2017b). Even so, the mechanisms underlying biochar's ability to alleviate volatile fatty acid inhibition remain unknown. Moreover, additional research is neces-sary to determine the maximum biochar dosage associated with these features. Similarly, the significance of porous bio-char in promoting the development of microbial biofilms and its protective capacity to enrich functional microorganisms attached to it, under acid stress, should be investigated.Mitigating ammonia inhibitionAmmonia, namely ammonium and free ammonia nitrogen, collectively referred to as total ammonia nitrogen, has long been seen as a critical constraint that adversely affects or even causes anaerobic digestion failure (Rajagopal et al. 2013). Chen et al. (2008) observed that a total ammonia nitrogen concentration of 1.7–14 g   L−1 could lower meth-ane emissions by up to 50%. Additionally, free ammonia nitrogen is considered the principal inhibitor of methano -gens (Rajagopal et al. 2013) and has been shown to have an inhibitory effect on anaerobic microbes at concentrations ranging from 150 to 1200 mg   L−1 (Poirier et al. 2017).Numerous mitigation strategies have been proposed to resolve the detrimental effects of total ammonia nitrogen and free ammonia nitrogen on anaerobic digestion. Strate-gies mainly focus on the immobilisation and removal of such inhibitors, which include, co-digestion, dilution, and micro-bial adaptation (Yun et al. 2016; Dai et al. 2017); struvite 2410 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3precipitation (Huang et al. 2014); the use of a microbial desalinisation cells (Zhang and Angelidaki 2015); in situ membrane treatment (García-González et al. 2016), and ammonia stripping (Kinidi et al. 2018; Georgiou et al. 2019). Other options include the use of inorganic adsorbents such as zeolites (Cardona et al. 2021), as well as organic adsor -bents such as activated carbon (Poirier et al. 2017) and bio-char (Ambaye et al. 2021).Biochar can effectively mitigate ammonia inhibition, enhance methane production, shorten reactor lag times, and offer reactor stability (Table  8). Su et al. (2019) dem-onstrated that adding biochar to the anaerobic digestion of food waste can alleviate inhibition caused by 1500 mg   L−1 total ammonia nitrogen. Similarly, Lü et al. (2016) reported that biochar can stabilise anaerobic digestion under high ammonium stress of 7000 mg-nitrogen   L−1.The following hypotheses were made regarding the posi-tive effects of ammonia mitigation mechanisms using bio-char: (i) directly via cation-exchange capacity (Shen et al. 2017); affordable surface functional groups and physical or chemical adsorption capability (Shen et al. 2017; Khalil et al. 2018; Sarkhot et al. 2013); and (ii) indirectly via improved direct interspecies electron transfer (Lü et al. 2016; Chen et al. 2021a); and immobilisation of microorganisms (Lü et al. 2016). The findings summarised in Table  8 dem-onstrate how biochar can be used to enhance gas produc-tion by removing total ammonia nitrogen and free ammonia nitrogen from the fermentation system. For example, when biochar was added to the anaerobic reactor, 5.5 mg   g−1 of total ammonia nitrogen was adsorbed (Khalil et al. 2018; Sarkhot et al. 2013). The effectiveness of biochar in reducing ammonia levels was shown to be correlated with its surface area (Zhai et al. 2020). The abundant functional groups (car -boxylic, phenolic, and lactonic) produce acidified-biochar (0.1–3.0 mmol   g−1), which is necessary for free ammonia nitrogen sorption and reactor buffering capabilities (Pan et al. 2019; Chun et al. 2004). Generally, the size of the biochar particles had a significant effect on the improvement of total ammonia nitrogen and free ammonia nitrogen sup-pression. The large particle size of 2–5 mm demonstrated the greatest ammonia inhibition alleviation and maximal biomethane generation in an apparently shorter lag time, but the smaller-sized biochar of 75–150 μm had a significantly lower effect (Lü et al. 2016).Furthermore, the microporosity of biochar may provide an ideal habitat for microbial colonisation, which may aid in the recovery of free ammonia nitrogen accumulation (Cheng et al. 2020a). Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Synergistetes, and Planctomycetes have all recently been promoted in biochar-added bioreactors (Chen et al. 2021a). Additionally, biochar supplementation can abate the inhibition of acidogenic by-products by increasing syntrophic oxidation of volatile fatty acids (Zhao et al. 2021c ). In addition to acidified bacterial enrichment, the porous characteristics of biochar also facil-itate the growth of methanogens such as Methanosaeta, Methanobacterium, Methanosarcina, and Methanolinea  (Kumar et al. 2021c; Chen et al. 2021a). Interestingly, an increase in methanogenesis enzymatic activity, such as coen-zyme F420, was observed in a biochar-added reactor (Qi et al. 2021b).Contaminant removal by biochar in the anaerobic processInhibitors often cause the decline of biomethane production and instability of anaerobic digestion operations through shifting the microbial consortia or inhibiting microbial growth (Zhang et al. 2021a). In general, inhibitors can be direct, such as metals and organics (antibiotics, chlorophe-nols, lignocellulose hydrolysate, pesticides, and halogen-ated aliphatics); or indirect, such as sulphides, hydrogen, long-chain fatty acids, volatile fatty acids, and ammonium (Fagbohungbe et al. 2017).Heavy metals removalHeavy metals can either enhance or impair anaerobic diges-tion operations. Numerous metals, including nickel, molyb-denum, and cobalt, have been shown to enhance the activ -ity of anaerobic enzymes (Luo et al. 2020). For example, nickel is an essential component of hydrogenase, coenzyme F430, and carbon monoxide dehydrogenase, all of which aid in the growth of anaerobic microbes such as methano-genic archaea and sulphate-reducing bacteria (Khan et al. 2021b). According to Pobeheim et al. (2010), a nickel/cobalt mixture or nickel alone enhanced methane output by 30 and 15%, respectively. Similarly, Cao et al. demonstrated that 100 mg   kg−1 of copper could accelerate the decom-position of organic matter in a digestion system, resulting in increased methane production (Cao et al. 2015). The increased methane volume is a result of enhanced metal bioavailability, enhancing microbial growth and metabo-lism (Pobeheim et al. 2010).On the contrary, heavy metals can inhibit enzymes by replacing metals in enzymes or altering the functional groups of protein molecules (Chen et al. 2014). Addition-ally, heavy metals may produce cytotoxic compounds (Zayed and Winter 2000) that may permeate the cell wall and inhibit microorganisms, hence reducing the amount of methane pro -duced during the fermentation process (Shi et al. 2020). The inhibitory effect of heavy metals on the anaerobic digestion system is relative to their concentration, which regulates enzymatic synthesis (Liu et al. 2021a). Therefore, the half-maximal inhibitory concentration method is employed to quantify the detrimental effect of heavy metals on anaero -bic digestion operations (Chen et al. 2014). However, the 2411 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Table 8  Utilisation of biochar to alleviate stressors in anaerobic digestion systemsBiochar Pyrolysis conditions Feedstocks Biochar dosage Inhibitor Fermentation pattern ReferencesWheat straw 550 °C Food waste and sludge 10 g  L−1Volatile fatty acids (> 4000 mg  L−1)Propionate reduced to 1460 mg  L−1; specific methane yields improved to 24%Kaur et al. (2020)Sewage sludge 350 °C Fruit waste and activated sludge0.5, 1, 1.5, and 2 g  L−1Volatile fatty acids (2587 mg  L−1)Total volatile fatty acids volume were reduced to 387, 1196, 1465, and 1594 mg  L−1 for biochar additions, respectivelyAmbaye et al. (2020a)Sewage sludge Volatile fatty acids (2943 mg  L−1)Total volatile fatty acids volume reduced to 1196, 1821, 646, and 1142 mg  L−1 for biochar additions, respectivelyAmbaye et al. (2020a)Sawdust waste 500 °C for 1.5 h Food waste and sludge 20 g  L−1Volatile fatty acids (57,900 mg COD  L−1)– Butyrate decreased up to 70%– Methane content boosted over 70%Wang et al. (2021d)Vermicompost 500 °C for 2.0 h Chicken manure and kitchen waste24 g  L−1Volatile fatty acids (> 12,000 mg  L−1)Total volatile fatty acids reduced from 10,798 to 3957 mg  L−1Wang et al. (2017b)Wood chips 800 °C Food waste 5 g  L−1Volatile fatty acids (> 3000 mg  L−1)Methane outcome boosted by 18%Lim et al. (2020)Rice husk 550 °C for 2 h Corn stover and chicken manure10 g  L−1Total ammonia nitrogen (> 6300 mg  L−1)Methane generation aspect enhanced by 28–96%Yu et al. (2021b)Macadamia nutshells 350 °C for 2 h Food waste 33.3 g  L−1Ammonia nitrogen (1500 mg  L−1)Chemical oxygen demand removed up to 90%, com-pared with 8% without biocharSu et al. (2019)Fruitwood 800–900 °C Glucose solution 10 g  L−1Ammonia (7 g-N  L−1) Peak methane generation rate prompted by 47.1%Lü et al. (2016)Pine pellets Gasification 600–710 °C Primary sludge 2.49 and 4.97 g per gTS sludgeAmmonia nitrogen (400–450)– Increased methane yield by 3.9–9.5%– Increased ammonia nitro-gen quantity by 67% for anaerobic system without biochar compared with by −7.2 to 4.7% with biocharShen et al. (2016)Corn stover Gasification 850 °C Primary sludge + waste activated sludge0.25, 0.375, 0.5, and 1 g per d– Enhanced methane content by 13.7–25.3%Shen et al. (2017)2412 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3concentration values for heavy metals in the literature varied significantly. For example, the half-maximal inhibitory con-centration values for cadmium, nickel, zinc, and chromium in anaerobic digestion were 330, 1600, 270, and 250 mg   L−1, respectively (Lin and Chen 1999 ), whereas the values for the elements mentioned above were reported to be considerably lower (Altaş 2009). Such variation is probably attributable to the inconsistency in anaerobic digestion processes, includ-ing reactor configurations, feedstock type, and operational parameters.Heavy metals are primarily classified according to their bioavailability into three groups: those bound to carbonates or iron/manganese oxides, exchangeable, and those bound to organic particulates (Qi et al. 2021a). Humic acid, an organic component of anaerobic slurry, has the potential to change heavy metal speciation, thereby passivating metals. Wang et al. reported that humic acid with oxygen and aromatic functional groups could adsorb and react with copper(II), nickel(II), and cobalt(II) via anaerobic digestion of corn stover and chicken manure (Wang et al. 2021e). Enhanc-ing metal passivation could be accomplished by optimising anaerobic digestion practices, such as pH, redox potential, and temperature, as well as by adding certain materials, such as biochar (Tao et al. 2021). Whereby the bioavailability and immobility of zinc and copper were diminished as a result of carbonate formation and sulphide precipitation during anaerobic digestion of swine slurry (Marcato et al. 2009). Substrate pH reduction to 5 may be effective in improving the sorption of lead(II) (Naiya et al. 2009).The biochar produced at various pyrolysis temperatures, particularly those between 500 and 900 °C, can alleviate several inhibitors that have a detrimental effect on the anaerobic digestion pro-cess. Specifically, volatile fatty acids, ammonia nitrogen, and total nitrogen levels may decrease following biochar addition, indicating that biochar plays a role in alleviating anaerobic digestion inhibitors and improves overall digestion performanceTable 8  (continued)Biochar Pyrolysis conditions Feedstocks Biochar dosage Inhibitor Fermentation pattern ReferencesWheat bran pellets Pyrolysis 800 °C Wheat bran pellets 25 g  L−1Ammonia nitrogen (200–250)– Increased total volatile fatty acids removal and reduced lag phase– No adsorption of ammo-nia by biocharViggi et al. (2017)Wheat straw Pyrolysis 350, 450, and 550 °CChicken manure 5% w/w Total ammonia nitrogen (4.48 g  L−1)Total ammonia nitrogen reduced by 25% than the controlPan et al. (2019)Fig. 5  Many features of biochar allow to remove pollutants such as heavy metals and antibiotics. Contaminants can be passivated via adsorption, surface complexation, redox effect, ion exchange, precipi-tation, electrostatic attraction, and π–π interactions during anaerobic digestion. The heavy metal pollutants affecting the anaerobic diges-tion process could reduce either mesophilic or thermophilic operation system, which verifies the wide aspect of biochar efficiency on heavy metal removal at various digestion conditions2413 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Biochar has the ability to passivate non-biodegradable heavy metals, hence lowering their bioavailability (Liu et al. 2018b). Several studies have established the role of biochar in improving heavy metal passivation via chemisorption, complexation, redox effect, ion exchange, precipitation, electrostatic attraction, physical adsorption, and π–π inter -actions during anaerobic digestion (see Fig.  5 and Table  9) (Gopinath et al. 2021; Wang et al. 2019a). This is attributed to the inherent characteristics of biochar, including a large surface area, porosity, adsorption sites (e.g. carboxyl organ-ics and hydroxyl), and large surface cations (Ahmad et al. 2014).Mahdi et al. confirmed that adsorption via ion exchange could remove 57–72% of iron(II), nickel(II), and copper(II) using date seed biochar (Mahdi et al. 2018). However, bio-char's passivation ability is typically regulated by operational practices such as alkalinity, organic loading rate, and pH. The alkaline nature of biochar enhances the adsorption and precipitation capacity of heavy metals, hence increasing the amount of biogas produced during anaerobic digestion (Mao et al. 2015). Recently, biochar modification has been proposed as a viable method to attain highly effective and steady performance in the reduction of heavy metals. For example, thiol-improved biochar derived from rice straw was able to alleviate heavy metals in soil, reducing  Pb2+ by 11.1–39.2% via complexation (Fan et al. 2020).AntibioticsAntibiotics of various kinds and dosages can inhibit anaero-bic digestion by increasing volatile fatty acid accumulation and decreasing methane yield (Table  10). For example, Table 9  Impact of biochar addition to anaerobic digestion on heavy metals stabilisationDigested feedstocks such as sewage sludge, pig manure, organic municipal solid waste were investigated, and the impact of biochar preparation conditions along fermentation temperature was providedDigested feedstock Biochar condition Fermenta-tion tem-peratureMain effect ReferencesSewage sludge Pyrolysis, 600 °C Potassium permanga-nate-biochar35 °C Chromium, cadmium, nickel, zinc and copper, were reduced to 4.8%, 8.8%, 15.5%, 7.6%, and 9.7%, respectivelyLi et al. (2019c)Sewage sludge Pyrolysis, 600 °C Manganese iron oxide-biochar35 °C Carbonate-bound chromium, cadmium, and nickel were reduced by 49.8%, 49.5%, and 49.8%, respectivelyZhang and Wang (2020)Pig manure Particle size less than 0.425 mm 25 °C Exchangeable nickel, lead, arsenic, manganese, and chromium decreased by 6.5%, 12.3%, 12.9%, 3.1%, and 22.1%, respectivelyWang et al. (2021f)Organic Municipal Solid WastePyrolysis-gasification process 51–53 °C Lead, mercury, copper, nickel, chro-mium, and zinc content in the slurry was reducedBona et al. (2020)Table 10  Influence of antibiotics on methane outcome during the anaerobic digestion processThe table demonstrates that the existence of most antibiotics can reduce the anaerobic digestion performance due to their inhibitory effect on microorganismsFeedstock Antibiotic Dosage Methane production ReferencesDewatered sludge Roxithromycin 0–1 mg  L−1Reduced from 0.164 L per gVS to 0.151 L per gVSNi et al. (2020a)Swine manure Chlortetracycline 0–0.5 g per kg TS Reduced by up to 37.3% Yin et al. (2016)Swine manure Oxytetracycline Inhibited gas yield by 8.3–22.1% Yin et al. (2016)Dewatered sludge Sulphadimethoxine 100 mg  L−1Increased methane output by 39–52% Zhi et al. (2019)Dewatered sludge Oxytetracycline Enhanced methane output by 1–25% Zhi et al. (2019)Cattle manure Ceftiofur 0.2–250 mg  L−1Reduced methane output by 20% at dos-age > 50 mg  L−1Flores-Orozco et al. (2020)Cattle manure Chlortetracycline 0.04–1.28 mg  L−1Reduced methane output by 12–33% at concentration > 0.64 mg  L−1Andriamanohiarisoamanana et al. (2020)Cattle manure Oxytetracycline Reduced methane yield by 20–32% Andriamanohiarisoamanana et al. (2020)2414 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3clarithromycin dosages ranging from 0 to 1000 mg   kg−1 total suspended solids have been shown to increase total volatile fatty acids values by 10–22% in the anaerobic diges-tion of sewage sludge (Huang et al. 2019a ). Similarly, Hu et al. reported a 73.2% increase in total volatile fatty acids when sulphamethazine was added to the digestion system (Hu et al. 2018). Antibiotics have been shown to inactivate or inhibit microbiota by deteriorating the cell membrane and deoxyribonucleic acid transcript (Finberg et al. 2004); thus, the antibiotic-induced accumulation of volatile fatty acids may disrupt the cell wall and extracellular polymeric matrix. Due to their slower growth rate, archaea are more suscepti-ble to such unfavourable effects than bacteria, as shown by their lower methane generation (Aydin et al. 2015). Liu et al. (2021b) demonstrated that tetracycline at a concentration of 8 mg   L−1 reduced daily methane generation by 73%.In comparison with heavy metals, antibiotics are easily adsorbed by biochar (Fig.  5) via non-covalent π–π inter -faces and electrostatic attraction, with the sorption effi-ciency of biochar being entirely dependent on the matrix pH (Gopinath et al. 2021). The alcohol, carboxyl, phenyl, hydroxyl, and aldehyde groups contained in the biochar are critical concerning antibiotic adsorption (Wu et al. 2019a), as these groups accept an electron to form π–π electron donor–acceptor (adsorption) with antibiotics (Ahmed et al. 2018). Moreover, large amounts of enzymes and microor -ganisms bound to the biochar surface via biofilm forma-tion are necessary for the transformation and decomposi-tion of antibiotics in anaerobic digestion processes (Liang et al. 2020). The higher sorption function of biochar (Fig.  5) facilitates its enhanced adsorption capabilities as compared to graphite, multiwalled carbon nanotubes, bentonite, and activated carbon (Ahmed et al. 2015). However, additional research is necessary to determine the biotic and abiotic factors contributing to biochar advanced antibiotic removal within the fermentation system. Additionally, the large-scale application of biochar for antibiotic removal remains a chal-lenge that requires further investigations.MicroplasticsThe effects of microplastics on the anaerobic digestion pro-cess are highly variable, depending on their type, particle size, concentration, and anaerobic digestion conditions (Table  11). Microplastics, particularly nano-plastics, can diffuse through the membranes of microbial cells, disrupt-ing proteins and phospholipids (Zhang and Chen 2020). For example, 200 mg   L−1 nano-plastics may impair the Table 11  Microplastics' effects on biogas production during anaerobic digestionThe presence of microplastics in the anaerobic digestion system induces different effects on system performance. Higher doses of microplastics can reduce the digestion performance; however, lower doses may advance gas production due to the formation of micro-sheets for biofilm forma-tion that improves microbial colonisation and proliferationMicroplastics Concentration Particle size Digested feedstock Mode Effect on biogas yield ReferencesPolyvinyl chloride 10 particles 1000 μm Waste activated sludge Batch Improved methane yield to 5.9%Wei et al. (2019a)20–60 particles per g total solidsReduced methane out-put by 9.4–24.2%Polyethylene 10–60 particles per g total solids40 μm Waste activated sludge Batch No effect Wei et al. (2019b)100 and 200 particles per g total solidsReduced methane output by 12.4% and 27.5%200 particles per g total solidsContinuous Reduced methane output by 28.8%Polyester 1–200 particles per g total solids200 μm Waste activated sludge Batch Reduced methane out-put by 4.9–11.5%Li et al. (2020c)Polyamide 5–50 particles per g total solids500–1000 μm Waste activated sludge Batch Enhanced methane output by 4.84–39.5%Chen et al. (2021b)Polystyrene 0.05–0.20 g  L−15 μm, 80 nm Synthetic wastewater Batch No effect Zhang et al. (2020a)0.25 g  L−1Reduced methane output by 17.9% and 19.3%Polystyrene 10 μg  L−150 nm Synthetic wastewater Batch No effect Wei et al. (2020b)20 and 50 μg  L−1Reduced methane output by 19.0% and 28.6%2415 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3activities of Gracilibacteraceae, Cloacamonaceae , and Anaerolinaceae during anaerobic digestion, resulting in a 14.4% reduction in methane yield (Fu et al. 2018a). Add-ing microplastics (polyvinyl chloride) at a concentration of 10–60 mg per gTS to sewage sludge resulted in considerable bisphenol A leakage, which lowered methane production by 75.8–90.6% (Wei et al. 2019a). On the other hand, Chen et al. (2021b) discovered that microplastics enhanced the release of several important enzymes, including protease, butyrate kinase F420, and butyrate kinase, resulting in the production of volatile fatty acids and methane. Such varia-tion is attributed to the fact that microplastics have a vari -ety of properties. Microplastics contain a variety of surface functional units, such as carboxylic, phenyl, and amine, which serve as absorbents for some contaminants (antibi-otics) and serve as a colonisation set for microorganisms, exerting a variety of effects on the operation of anaerobic digestion (Cao et al. 2021).Through sorption and/or implied microbial biodegra-dation, biochar can alter microplastics in the media. Mag-netic biochar (iron (II, III) oxide -biochar) has been shown to be effective at immobilising microplastic particles in groundwater and soil (Tong et al. 2020). Additionally, by enhancing the oxidation process, the applied magnetic-bio-char enhanced the separation of microplastics from other contaminants, such as heavy metals (Ye et al. 2020). This separation process was possibly facilitated by the effective sorption of microplastics and biochar with the contaminants. In addition to the adsorption process, biochar can be used to stimulate the microbial niche during anaerobic digestion, hence aiding in the degradation of micro/nano-plastics. Bio-char, in particular, can improve direct interspecies electron transfer in anaerobic digestion operations by promoting the growth of Pseudomonas stutzeri and Pseudomonas putida, both of which are known as effective plastic biodegrading bacteria (Qi et al. 2021b).Additionally, biochar can enhance functional microbes, such as methanogens, to accelerate direct interspecies elec-tron transfer by diminishing the gap between syntrophic compartments (Zhao et al. 2015). Li et al. (2021) demon-strated that promoting direct interspecies electron transfer and enhancing the formation of microbial consortiums can promote pyrene, a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, biodeg-radation in anaerobic sludge digestion. Similarly, Hao et al. (2021) noted that the addition of magnetic biochar could stimulate some species such as Spirochaetes, Euryarchaeota, and Chloroflexi, which accelerate the methanogenesis phase and promote the elimination of polycyclic aromatic hydro-carbons. Recirculation of biochar-loaded digestate could potentially improve the stability and variety of the microbial community, hence accelerating polycyclic aromatic hydro-carbons biodegradation. This would be an interesting area for future research.Furfural and 5‑hydroxymethyl furfural degradation5-hydroxymethyl furfural, a toxic furan by-product, has the potential to have a detrimental effect on anaerobic digestion systems. They could be formed by pretreatment of substrates with heat, acid, or alkaline (Kim and Karthikeyan 2021 ; Bruni et al. 2010 ). At lower concentrations, 5-hydroxym-ethyl furfural can be metabolised to methane during fermen-tation. Khan et al. (2021c) reported that using 5-hydroxym-ethyl furfural and furfural as a carbon source resulted in a methane yield of 21.31–28.98 mL per 0.5 g chemical oxygen demand. Huang et al. (2019b) demonstrated that various fur -fural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural concentrations in acid pretreated elephant grass could be completely consumed during the subsequent digestion process. However, it was demonstrated that furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural concentrations of more than 1 and 2 g   L−1 significantly reduced the methane yield to 24.7 and 47.6%, respectively, due to deoxyribonucleic acid and cell membrane structure damage to the entire microbe population during the digestion process (Anburajan et al. 2020).Only a few studies have been conducted to determine the effectiveness of biochar in removing/adsorbing 5-hydroxym-ethyl furfural during the anaerobic digestion process. How -ever, their removal with biochar was documented. For exam-ple, Li et al. (2014) demonstrated that adding 75 g of biochar per L of water can adsorb 10 g per L furfural with a 100% removal efficiency. Similarly, biochar that has been mildly treated with ruthenium can work as a catalyst to promote the conversion of furfural to furfuryl alcohol under conditions of high pressure and temperature (Bardestani et al. 2020). However, additional research is necessary to fully under -stand the potential of biochar in removing 5-hydroxymethyl furfural and other furan by-products during anaerobic diges-tion operations.SummaryTo conclude, our analysis shows that biochar can be utilised as a means of enhancing anaerobic digestion operations, pri-marily for biogas generation and upgrading, operation per -formance and sustainability, and the mitigation of inhibitory impurities such as gaseous impurities, antibiotics, residues, heavy metals, microplastics, and furan-by-products. Such enhancement is attributed to the biochar's fundamental prop-erties, including its large surface area, porosity, surface func-tional groups, and interaction with an anaerobic microbial consortium enabling sophisticated electron transfer. None-theless, the following challenges and prospects continue to be significant concerns:• Further research is needed to elucidate the underlying function of biochar in improving the adsorption of pollut-2416 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3ants, particularly furan derivatives, antibiotic resistance genes, and nano-plastics, which are emerging environ-mental threats.• Biochar effectively removes contaminants in anaerobic digestion systems, while also adding value to the diges-tate produced. This approach would enhance contaminant removal while maintaining the proper quality of digestate biofertilizer for agricultural applications.• Several batch tests with various feedstocks and the addi-tion of biochar have been conducted under anaerobic digestion conditions. However, few large-scale anaerobic digestion system tests have been conducted to ascertain the optimal dosage, substrate to inoculum ratio, particle size, and re-utilisation rates. Thus, the field-scale applica -tion of biochar for improving anaerobic digestion should be researched in the future. Furthermore, additional research should focus on developing innovative tools and biochar composites, such as metal biochar frameworks and biochar-loaded nanomaterials, to enhance biochar's sorption capacity.• While practically all prior research established that add-ing biochar to anaerobic digestion operations would considerably enhance methanogenesis, certain studies revealed the unfavourable or even inhibitory effects of adding biochar on anaerobic digestion performances. The precise mechanism by which this inhibition occurs is unknown. Thus, optimising the condition of biochar in fermentation systems requires further clarification of the appropriate inhibition mechanisms.CompostingConcepts of the composting processThe composting process generally consists of three distinct phases: (i) a moderate-temperature (mesophilic) stage, (ii) a high-temperature (thermophilic) stage, and (iii) a cooling and maturation stage (Xiao et al. 2017). At various stages of composting, distinct microbial communities dominate (Awasthi et al. 2017a). Composting substrate character -istics such as moisture content, particle size, biochemical composition and properties, and environmental conditions such as oxygen supply (aeration), temperature, and hydrogen ion concentration (pH) all have a significant effect on the composting process (Onwosi et al. 2017; Viaene et al. 2017).The following summarises the effects of the factors men-tioned above on composting: (i) the initial feedstocks' low carbon to nitrogen ratio may result in nitrogen losses due to leaching or ammonia volatilisation, whereas their higher car -bon to nitrogen ratios mostly lengthen the composting period (Diaz et al. 2011); (ii) the biochemical characteristics of compost indicate its degradability, and thus some feedstocks are difficult to degrade during the process(Vandecasteele et al. 2017); (iii) small-sized substrates promote the devel-opment of clumps, while large-sized substrates are difficult to decompose (Bernal et al. 2009); (iv) moisture contained within compost promotes nutrient and gas exchange within the substrates and compost pile (Onwosi et al. 2017); (v) the pH of the compost pile has an effect on all microbial activi-ties and ammonia volatilization (Zhang and Sun 2017); (vi) while the air temperature is critical for composting to initi-ate, the temperature of the compost pile reveals the extent of microbial activity and advancement of the composting process. A high temperature is advantageous for destroy -ing pathogens and weed seeds (Xiao et al. 2017). Finally, aeration is a critical parameter that significantly impacts the quality of compost, composting processes, and green -house gas emissions, so adequate aeration of compost is vital (Chowdhury et al. 2014).Production of co‑composted biocharBiochar co-composting refers to the process of mixing bio-char with compostable substrates such as manure, plant resi-dues, and sewage sludge prior to aerobic composting (Anto-nangelo et al. 2021). Because co-composted biochar retains all of the compost and biochar properties, it is primarily used to improve soil conditions and mitigate toxic elements (Khan et al. 2016). The methods by which biochar is applied in soils are critical in determining its anticipated effects.In general, two techniques are widely used to combine biochar and compost. The first is to add biochar to com -posted substrates after the composting process is complete and prior to soil application. This approach may improve soil nutrient availability and plant growth (Cao et al. 2018; Naeem et al. 2018; Safaei Khorram et al. 2019). The second approach is the addition of biochar to substrates at the start of the composting process, which is referred to as co-com-posting. The co-composted biochar would then be applied to soils. The cost of co-composting is significantly less than the cost of mixing biochar with compost post-composting, which requires two distinct steps: conventional composting and subsequent biochar addition (Khan et al. 2016). The co-composting procedure has several advantages, which will be discussed in detail.Changes of compost properties after biochar additionPhysicochemical properties of biochar during compostingTemperature is a critical parameter because it not only affects the rate of composting but also contributes to the inhibition of pathogenic microbes and weeding seeds origi-nating from the input substrates (Czekała et al. 2016). When 2417 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3biochar was added with substrates, the composting tem-perature increased rapidly as compared to the non-sup-plemented control (Wei et al. 2014). Additionally, it has been observed that co-composting with biochar facilitated process completion one week earlier compared to the pro-cess without biochar addition (Li et al. 2015; López-Cano et al. 2016; Godlewska et al. 2017). The higher temperature achieved with biochar addition has been attributed to the increased microbial activity induced by biochar and low -ered heat losses (Li et al. 2015), where biochar attempts to fill intraparticle voids of composted substrates, which are believed to reduce heat losses during the composting process (Zhang et al. 2016b ). Additionally, biochar enhances aera -tion, which accelerates microbial growth and increases the amount of heat generated (Zhang et al. 2016b).In addition to temperature, moisture content plays a sig-nificant role in influencing the effectiveness of composting. The ideal moisture level should remain between 50–60% throughout the composting process (Li et al. 2015). The high moisture content of the compost pile may restrict aeration flow within the composted substrates, whereas low moisture levels inhibit microbial activity (Godlewska et al. 2017). As the composting process is initiated, the increased tempera-ture of the pile leads to significant water evaporation. How -ever, some studies have demonstrated that adding biochar to compost reduces water loss compared to compost without biochar (Xiao et al. 2017; Li et al. 2015). This is mainly due to biochar's exceptional water holding capacity (Husni and Samsuri 2012 ). Biochar is recommended to be added to compost in general, but especially to substrates with high moisture levels, to bring the moisture content down to an acceptable level.The pH of the compost is a critical parameter. The ideal pH range for plant growth is between 6.5 and 7 (Zhang et al. 2016b). Additionally, pH affects the immobility of heavy metals, as higher pH values of compost reduce the solubil-ity of metal contents, lowering the toxicity of heavy metals to crops when applied as a fertiliser to the soil (Zhang et al. 2016b). The addition of biochar can lead to an increase in the pH of the compost as a result of the leaching of soluble alkaline groups (Antonangelo et al. 2021 ). Co-composting wheat straw, biochar, and poultry droppings resulted in a higher pH of the subsequent compost than without the addi-tion of biochar (Czekała et al. 2016).Similarly, Czekała et al. discovered that co-composting sewage sludge and biochar (4% w/w) increased pH consider -ably as compared to sewage sludge composted without bio-char supplementation (Czekała et al. 2016). Sánchez-Garcia et al. (2015) reported that adding biochar at a concentration of 3% (dry weight) to barley straw and poultry manure mix-tures increased the pH from 5.9 to 6.5. However, in some cases, the pH was reduced when co-composting organic material and biochar due to increased acid generation from organic particulate biodegradation as a result of increased microbial activity (Wei et al. 2014; Chen et al. 2010). Additionally, the increased microbial activity may result in nitrogen biodegradation and increased ammonia genera-tion during the later stages of composting. The generated ammonia/ammonium may then be adsorbed by the surface of biochar, resulting in a slight decrease in the pH of the compost mixture (Antonangelo et al. 2021 ). On the other hand, various studies have demonstrated that co-composting with biochar did not significantly alter the pH of the co-composted mixture (Zhang et al. 2014c, 2016b). In general, the pH value of biochar-amended compost varies according to the biochar characteristics, and composting substrates mentioned previously.Impact of biochar amendment on the composting of organic matterResearch has shown that co-composting with biochar resulted in a higher dissolved organic carbon degrada-tion rate than composting without biochar (Zhang et al. 2016b ; Sánchez-García et al. 2015 ; Khan et al. 2014). This can be explained as follows: to begin, biochar addi-tion enhances microbial growth by increasing oxygen flow due to the enhanced porosity of the biochar, which further enhances the substrate mixture's porosity (Vandecasteele et al. 2017). Second, the excellent surface properties of bio-char facilitate the sorption of ammonium, ammonia, and hydrogen sulphide produced by the compost's microbial activities (Antonangelo et al. 2021). Additionally, the exist-ence of functional groups on the surface area of biochar chemisorbed dissolved organic carbon, resulting in a reduc-tion in leaching losses (Zhang et al. 2014c).Ultimately, the addition of biochar can stabilise humic and fulvic acids during the composting process by improv -ing the aromatic properties of organic materials, thereby improving the compost quality (Awasthi et al. 2017a; Jindo et al. 2016). Biochar indirectly facilitates the biodegradation of organic matter by simulating enzymatic activity (Zhang et al. 2016b ). Jindo et al. (2016 ) reported that adding biochar to compost stabilised the chemical component of fulvic acids and enhanced the degradation of humic acids, resulting in higher environmental stability. Wei et al. (2021) evaluated woody peat and biochar co-composting. They revealed that co-composting reduced the humic to fulvic acid ratio com-pared to the control, indicating that the humification process is optimised following co-composting.There are very few studies on the effect of co-compost -ing with biochar on reducing organic pollutants. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are the most reported pollutant in sewage sludge compost. However, biochar addition can help diminish such contaminants in composts (Stefaniuk and Oleszczuk 2016). The reduction in polycyclic aromatic 2418 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3hydrocarbons is attributed to the increased surface area of the biochar and subsequent increase in microbial activity (Oleszczuk and Kołtowski 2018).Influence of biochar addition on some nutrientsWhile inorganic nitrogen is frequently transferred from ammonium to nitrate during composting (Larney et al. 2006), the bioavailability of nitrogen decreases as the com-posting process progresses. Biochar co-composts typically release less ammonia and more nitrate than composts with-out biochar (Malińska et al. 2014). The conversion of ammo-nia/ammonium into nitrate (nitrification process) is typically facilitated by nitrifying bacteria, which is enhanced by the addition of biochar, whereas the opposite process (ammon-ification process) is inhibited (López-Cano et al. 2016). Furthermore, the metal content of biochar (e.g. aluminium, iron, silicon, and iron-, calcium-, aluminium- phosphates, calcium- and magnesium- carbonates) may provide a posi-tively charged biochar surface, enhancing nitrate adsorption (Archanjo et al. 2017).Losses of nitrogen were reduced when co-composting with biochar due to the sorption of ammonium/ammonia on the biochar surface (López-Cano et al. 2016; Chen et al. 2010). Specifically, López-Cano et al. (2016) demonstrated that co-composting with biochar increased  NO3− levels by twofold compared to composting without biochar addi-tion. Other scholars reported similar results (Khan et al. 2014; Kammann et al. 2015). Co-composting municipal solid waste and green waste (50:50, w/w) with 10% biochar obtained from holm oak pyrolysed at 650 °C increased the ammonium-nitrogen content of compost by up to 29% after 90 days of composting (Viaene et al. 2017; Vandecasteele et al. 2017). As a result, biochar-amended compost contains more nitrogen than control compost without biochar, which benefits the soil. It was stated that using biochar at 5% (w/w) increased the nitrogen content of the final compost by 45% compared to compost without biochar (Jain et al. 2018).Importantly, composting incorporates additional critical nutrients such as phosphorus, calcium, potassium, sodium, magnesium, and sulphur. The concentrations of these met-als highly depend on the type of composted substrate, with phosphorus and potassium contributing the most. The leach-ing of macro-elements from compost reduces the fertiliser quality of compost significantly (Rameeh 2012). Co-com-posting with biochar has been shown to affect the macro-elements and fertiliser properties of the compost (Zhang et al. 2016b). Biochar produced from wheat straw that was pyrolysed at 500–600 °C and added at a rate of 10% or 15% (w/w) to pig manure and wheat straw compost increased the amount of phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, and potassium elements in the compost (Zhang et al. 2016b). The higher content of such elements in the co-compost is attributed to the macro-elements being retained in the biochar added.Additionally, the biochar's negatively charged surface area retained the potassium, magnesium, and calcium cations via electrostatic interactions (Zhang et al. 2016b; Vandecasteele et al. 2016 ). As a result, ions contained in the composted substrates were not leached out, increasing the quality of fertilisers produced. Additionally, the authors noted that the phosphate levels (after 105 days) in compost substrates containing biochar were reduced by 2.6–23.8% compared to their concentration prior to composting. This was attributed to phosphorus loss (soluble form) caused by organic phosphorus mineralisation and microbe utilisation. The levels of sodium ions were nearly unchanged before and after the composting process with biochar addition and were 8.7–16.7% lower than the control, indicating that soil dete-rioration may potentially be reduced (Zhang et al. 2016b).Wei et al. (2021) observed that the total phosphorus con-centration increased during the co-composting operation of woody peat and biochar due to the biodegradation of organic materials. However, the authors noted that the total phospho-rus content of the co-compost could not be increased above that of control. Vandecasteele et al. (2017) reported that co-composting municipal solid waste and green waste (1:1 w/w) with biochar (10% at 650 °C) decreased the  HNO3-P content by 18%, however, increased the  H2O- and  CaCl2-P bioavail-ability by 16.8 and 4.9%, respectively, in biochar-amended substrates. The authors concluded that adding biochar had no effect on the fertiliser value of phosphorus.Influence of biochar on heavy metals availabilityBiomass contains varying amounts of heavy metals, depend-ing on the type of biomass. Composting may influence the bioavailability of heavy metals. Typically, bonds between metals and organic particulates are formed via complexation, which reduces the solubility of metals and thus their bioa-vailability. However, when compost is added to the soil, with the variations in pH, the availability of heavy metals can rise (Godlewska et al. 2017). Several studies examined the stabi-lising effects of biochar on heavy metals during composting, which were attributed to biochar's ability to reduce the bio-availability and immobility of metals. Chen et al. (2010) reported a decrease in the mobility of zinc and copper in co-composted pig manure incorporating biochar. Addition-ally, biochar added to pig manure and humic acid compost has been shown to passivate lead, copper, and cadmium by 66, 95, and 69%, respectively (Zhou et al. 2018a).There are several mechanisms by which biochar deacti-vates heavy metals. For example, complexation, physical adsorption, reduction, ion exchange, electrostatic interac -tions with the biochar surface, and precipitation can poten-tially affect metal bioavailability and immobilisation (Guo 2419 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3et al. 2020a; Wang et al. 2017c; Awasthi et al. 2016). Heavy metals may form complexation bonds with biochar func-tional groups (carboxylic groups); additionally, surface pre-cipitation may immobilise metals, particularly lead (Xue et al. 2012). Cui et al. ( 2016a ) observed a reduction in the bioavailability of copper, zinc, and arsenic when co-com-posting sawdust and chicken manure (2:3, w:w) with biochar (5%) produced from rice straw or fungal biomass combus-tion when compared with the control in which biochar is not added. The decreased bioavailability of heavy metals was due to the effective immobilisation imposed by biochar.Li et al. (2015) investigated the effect of co-compost-ing pig manure with biochar made from pyrolysed corn stalk prepared at various temperature (250–900 °C) on the availability of copper and zinc. Their findings indicated that biochar produced via pyrolysis at temperatures between 450 and 500 °C had the greatest reduction in heavy metal bio-availability. After 90 days of composting, the bioavailabil-ity of these metals was reduced by 24.8 and 9.9%, respec-tively, when compared to their initial concentrations at the start of the composting process. However, some studies indicate that biochar did not affect the bioavailability and mobility of heavy metals in co-composts containing biochar (López-Cano et al. 2016).In conclusion, the efficiency of reducing the bioavailabil-ity of heavy metals depends entirely on the original com-post substrates and the characteristics of the biochar used. Biochar acts as a beneficial core element during composting, immobilising metals in the co-compost. After land applica-tion, the leaching (elution) or metal mobility rate would be considerably lowered. As a result, their leaching into the environment will be significantly reduced.Influence of biochar on the release of gases during compostingSeveral gases are produced during the composting process as organic matter degrades, including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, carbon monoxide, and ammonia (Cui et al. 2016a; Yin et al. 2021a). The gases produced are primarily greenhouse gases, which have a detrimental effect on the ecosystem and contribute to global warming. As a result, reducing the amount of gaseous emissions produced by the composting process would benefit climate change. Biochar may be beneficial for gaseous emission reduction when compared to unamended compost, due to improved aeration, decreased bulk density, gas diffusion, and enhanced growth of methane-consuming methanotrophic archaea (Godlewska et al. 2017).Impact on  carbon dioxide emissions during  compost‑ing There is conflicting evidence regarding the effect of co-composting with biochar on carbon dioxide emissions. According to some studies, adding biochar to pig manure composting operations significantly reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 26.1% (Wang et al. 2018c). Similarly, when co-composting, carbon dioxide emissions were reduced by 51% compared to when no biochar was added. These stud-ies  attributed the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions to biochar's adsorption capacity for carbon dioxide (Van-decasteele et al. 2017; Vandecasteele et al. 2016). On the other hand, Mao et al. demonstrated that adding biochar to the same substrates increased carbon dioxide emissions by 53.2% (Mao et al. 2018). The various effects of biochar on carbon dioxide emissions have been attributed to either bio-char improving organic particulate sequestration and there-fore reducing carbon dioxide emissions during co-com-posting (Liu et al. 2017b), or biochar enhancing microbial growth and intensifying their ability to further biodegrade organic materials, thereby liberating more carbon diox-ide (Mao et al. 2018). Another potential source of increased carbon dioxide liberation is increased aeration in compost piles caused by biochar, which inhibits methanogens' activ -ity and denitrifies bacteria, thereby increasing methane to carbon dioxide conversion (He et al. 2019).Impact on methane emissions during composting Biochar addition can improve the compost environment by reducing anaerobic zones and providing an oxidation redox, thereby decreasing anaerobe activity and increasing methanotroph activity, thus lowering methane emissions (Yin et al. 2021a; Sonoki et al. 2013). Additionally, the ammonium/ammonia adsorption capacity of biochar would reduce methanogen nitrogen utilisation, thereby reducing methanogen activity and methane emissions (Karhu et al. 2011). Awasthi et al. (2016) co-composted wheat straw and sewage sludge (1:1) with wheat straw biochar (12%). The authors discovered an up to 80% reduction in methane emissions when compared to compost without biochar addition. Similarly, when bio-char produced from a mixture of hardwood and softwood was added in a 4:1 ratio to chicken manure at a 27% (dry weight) concentration, methane generation was reduced by up to 32% compared to compost without biochar addition (Chowdhury et al. 2014).Impact on nitrous oxide emissions during composting Bio-char can significantly reduce nitrous oxide emissions by decreasing the amount of inorganic nitrogen used by nitri-fying/denitrifying bacteria (He et  al. 2019). Additionally, this can be achieved via the adsorption capacity established by the biochar's surface area, which adsorbs nitrous oxide and converts it to nitrogen via a specific biological reaction (Harter et al. 2016). Biochar addition may also affect spe-cific enzymes encoded by certain genes that affect nitrous oxide production, which are involved in the denitrification process, such as the nirK, nirS, and nosZ gene expressions 2420 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3(Xiao et al. 2017; Yin et al. 2020a). Wang et al. investigated the effect of co-composting wood chips, pig manure, and sawdust with bamboo biochar (3%  at 600  °C)  on nitrous oxide emissions. The authors observed a reduction of 25.9% in nitrous oxide emissions compared to the control. This reduction was attributed to a decrease in the amount of nitrogen dioxide, which is primarily converted to nitrous oxide. Furthermore, by enhancing bacterial activities that reduce nitrous oxide and inhibit  the following enzymatic activities (Wang et  al. 2013).  Other studies confirm  these findings (Chowdhury et al. 2014; Awasthi et al. 2016).Impact on ammonia emissions during composting Ammo-nia gas can be released during the composting process. Ammonia immobilisation can potentially  reduce ammo-nia emissions while also retaining ammonia, which helps reduce nitrogen losses, thereby increasing the compost's fertiliser value. Efforts have been made thus far to minimise ammonia losses during the composting process. The addi-tion of biochar to compost is capable of reducing ammonia release, and loss due to the following: (i) modified surface area of biochar can adsorb ammonia/ammonium  through the acidified functional groups (Godlewska et al. 2017); (ii) adding biochar improves the compost's overall environment and stimulates the activity of nitrifying bacteria, which con-vert ammonia to nitrate, thereby retaining nitrogen in the compost (Akdeniz 2019); (iii) biochar addition to compost increases certain enzymatic activities, such as cellulase (Yin et al. 2021b), which increase dissolved organic carbon pro-duction through cellulose disintegration, thereby reducing ammonia emissions via increased microbial utilisation of ammonium (Agyarko-Mintah et al. 2017).Khan et al. (2014) demonstrated that co-composting with biochar for 126 days reduced ammonia emissions by 90% compared to composts without the addition of bio-char. Similarly, Steiner et al. observed that co-composting biochar, obtained from pine chips at 400 °C, with poultry litter, resulted in a 47% reduction in ammonia emissions (Steiner et al. 2010). However, some studies found that co-composting wheat straw and sewage sludge with biochar increased nitrogen losses (ammonia) from the compost, when compared to compost without biochar (Awasthi et al. 2016). Malińska et al. (2014) investigated the effect of co-composting wood chips and sewage sludge with biochar on ammonia emissions and discovered that biochar had a dose-dependent effect on ammonia emissions. Whereas adding biochar during the first composting week reduced ammonia emissions relative to the control due to biochar's adsorption capacity, and adding biochar during the second composting week increased ammonia emissions relative to the compost without biochar. Similarly, a positive correlation between biochar dosage and ammonia release during sewage sludge composting was discovered (Hua et al. 2009).In conclusion, Table  12 summarises the effects of biochar addition on the greenhouse gas emissions produced by vari-ous composting processes. This effect varied significantly between studies due to the variety of biochars used and oper -ating conditions such as pyrolysis temperature, dosage, and particle size (Li et al. 2015 ; He et al. 2019 ; Awasthi et al. 2020; Chen et al. 2017b).Influence of biochar on microbes during compostingDuring composting, biochar can act as a protective environ-ment for microbes. The various pores in biochar, combined with its ability to retain nutrients, dissolved organic carbon, nitrogen, minerals, water-holding capacity, adequate mois-ture, pH buffering, and aeration, can provide an adequate environment for microbial proliferation. Additionally, it can mitigate inhibitor stresses such as hydrogen sulphide, ammonia, heavy metals, pathogens, and adverse environ-mental conditions (leaching, desiccation, and pH) (Sanchez-Monedero et al. 2018; Sun et al. 2020a; Sun et al. 2020b ). Several studies have demonstrated that biochar-modified compost contains a greater diversity of bacteria, actinomy -cetes, and fungi than compost without biochar (Antonan-gelo et al. 2021; Wei et al. 2014; Du et al. 2019). Adding biochar at a rate of 5–20% to compost enhanced Bacillus sp. growth compared to those without biochar (Du et al. 2019). Similarly, compost containing 1% biochar increased the abundance of Actinobacterium sp., Flavobacterium sp., and Rhizobiales sp ., resulting in improved lignocellulosic biomass decomposition. In doing so, it enhanced Acineto-bacter sp. for hydrocarbon biodegradation and Geobacillus thermodenitrificans to improve denitrification and hydrolysis processes (Wei et al. 2014).Factors influencing the effect of biochar during the composting processVarious biochar characteristics have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the composting process. Specifically, the type of biochar, the rate at which it is loaded, the conditions under which it is produced, the pH of the biochar, and the particle size of the biochar (Antonangelo et al. 2021).Biochar loading ratesThe dosage of biochar used has a significant effect on the compost's properties and on the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Generally, a loading rate of 10–15% (w/w) is con-sidered optimal for biochar addition, but rates up to 20–27% have been reported (Chowdhury et al. 2014; Steiner et al. 2010). For example, Awasthi et al. (2017b) discovered that the greatest effect of biochar added to compost occurred at a concentration of 12% (out of a range of 2–18%). Similarly, 2421 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3the 10% loading rate was estimated to have the greatest miti-gating efficiency among dosages of 2–10% (Awasthi et al. 2020). A higher loading rate of biochar may result in com-post dehydration due to excessive aeration.Type of biocharThe type of biomass used to produce biochar has a sig -nificant effect on the characteristics of biochar; thereby, it directly affects the greenhouse gas emission potential and compost properties (Akdeniz 2019). Biochar porosity can improve the aeration of the compost environment, increase aerobic bacterial activity, particularly methanotrophs and nitrifying bacteria, and decrease anaerobic activity (e.g. methanogens and denitrifying bacteria). Furthermore, the biochar's surface area facilitates the adsorption of ammo-nium/ammonia and nitrous oxide. These aspects strongly support the ability of biochar to significantly reduce meth-ane, ammonia, and nitrous oxide emissions from compost.In the light of these characteristics and the type of biochar used in the composting process, biochar derived from plant and woody biomass has a higher capacity for mitigating Table 12  Influence of biochar addition on gaseous emissions during the composting processThe addition of biochar significantly reduced the gaseous emissions produced during the composting process, thereby having a beneficial effect on the environment. The optimal dosage for adding biochar is approximately 10 g  L−1Composting substratesBiochar features Reduction in gaseous emissions (%) ReferencesType Dosage (%) Pyrolysis temperatureParticle size (mm)Carbon dioxideMethane Ammonia Nitrous oxideSawdust and poultry manureStraw 10 (w/w) 450–500 °C  ≤ 2 Not men-tionedNot men-tioned12.4 Not men-tionedZhang et al. (2020b)Wheat straw and poultry manureBamboo 2–10 (dry weight)Not men-tionedNot men-tioned5.5–72.6 12.5–72.9 19.0–77.4 12.4–81.6 Awasthi et al. (2020)Chicken manure and wheat strawChicken manure2–10 (dry weight)550–600 °C Not men-tionedNot men-tioned20.5–61.5 19.2–48.1 4.7–15.1 Chen et al. (2020c)Sawdust and pig manureBamboo 5 (dry weight)Not men-tioned2–3 Not men-tioned54.4 12.4 36.1 Mao et al. (2018)Sawdust and layer manureCornstalk, bamboo, wood and layer manure10 (dry weight)450–500 °C  ≤ 2 Not men-tioned15.5–26.1 9.2–24.8 Not men-tionedChen et al. (2017b)Wheat straw and sewage sludgeWheat straw 2–18 (dry weight)500–600 °C 2–5 Not men-tioned92.8–95.3 58.0–65.2 95.1–97.3 Awasthi et al. (2017b)Sugarcane straw and poultry litterGreen waste and poul-try litter10 (dry weight)550 °C Not men-tionedNot men-tioned77.8–83.3 54.9–60.2 68.2–74.9 Agyarko-Mintah et al. (2017)Solid sew -age waste and green wasteHolm oak 10 (dry weight)650 °C Not men-tioned52.9 95.1 Not men-tioned14.2 Vandecasteele et al. (2016)Rice chaff and cattle manureWheat straw 3 (dry weight)450 °C Not men-tionedNot men-tionedNot men-tionedNot men-tioned54.1 Li et al. (2016)Barley straw and poultry manureHardwood and softwood (4:1)27.4 (dry weight)500–700 °C  ≤ 16 21.5–22.9 77.9–83.6 35.3–43.0 16.1–35.3 Chowdhury et al. (2014)Sawdust, pig manure and wood chipsBamboo 3 (dry weight)600 °C Not men-tionedNot men-tionedNot men-tionedNot men-tioned25.9 Wang et al. (2013)2422 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3methane, ammonia, and nitrous oxide emissions from com-post. Various studies confirm this assertion. Chen et al. (2017b) for example, used a variety of biochar types derived from bamboo, corn stalk, coir, woody biomass, and manure in the composting process to mitigate ammonia and meth-ane emissions. Their findings indicated that using biochar made from corn stalk resulted in the greatest reduction in gaseous emissions due to its high surface area, pore volume, and total acidic functional groups. Similarly, nitrous oxide and methane emissions were reduced by 42.01 and 19.79%, respectively, when bamboo biochar was used compared to rice straw biochar (He et al. 2019 ), which is attributed to the higher specific surface area and pore volume of the bamboo biochar, as well as its higher aromatisation degree.Pyrolysis temperatureThe physicochemical characteristics of biochar are mostly affected by pyrolysis temperature, which significantly influ-ences biochar surface area, porosity, and aromatic groups. These characteristics can potentially be improved with the increase in pyrolysis temperature; however, the presence of acid oxygen-containing functional groups diminishes. As a result, biochar produced from the same material at different temperatures will have a different effect on greenhouse gas emissions mitigation during the composting process. In gen-eral, biochar produced via pyrolysis at temperatures ranging from 500 to 900 °C is more effective at reducing nitrous oxide and methane emissions, whereas biochar is produced via pyrolysis at temperatures ranging from 200 to 500 °C is more effective at reducing ammonia emissions (Yin et al. 2021a ). Woody biomass such as beech, bamboo, and oak, as well as crop residues such as wheat straw, pyrolysed at a temperature between 400 and 700 °C, are typically used to make biochar for composting (Antonangelo et al. 2021; Zhang et al. 2016b), where biochar properties, such as spe-cific surface area, presence of functional groups, porosity, alkalinity, and water holding capacity, among others, are optimal. Deng et al. (2021) reported that biochar produced at a pyrolysis temperature of 600 °C was more effective than biochar produced at 300 or 450 °C at reducing nitrous oxide emissions. However, Li et al. (2015) concluded that biochar formed at temperatures of 700 and 900 °C released more ammonia during composting than biochar formed at tem -peratures of 300 and 500 °C.Biochar particle sizeThe particle size of biochar significantly affects its pore char -acteristics and specific surface area. A study reported that using biochar with a particle size of 4–10 mm reduced meth-ane emissions by up to 56.8% during composting; however, by reducing the particle size to less than 1 mm, methane emissions increased by 22.15% (He et al. 2018a). This dif-ference was attributed to the loss of aggregates caused by the use of smaller-sized biochar, which resulted in a looser compost pile. Additionally, it was difficult to form intercon-nections between biochar pores and pig manure compost substrates using smaller-sized biochar (He et al. 2018a). As a result, adding granular biochar increased the porosity of the compost, thereby reducing methane emissions. On the other hand, adding powdered (< 1 mm) biochar reduced ammo-nia emissions from pig manure compost more than granular (4–8 mm) biochar, owing to the increased presence of active sites on the surface of the powdered biochar; however, the size of the biochar had little effect on methane and nitrous oxide emissions(He et al. 2019).Effect of co‑composted biochar on agricultural landsFertility loss, a decline in soil organic matter, soil nutrient imbalances, and unsustainable agricultural land use all con-tribute significantly to agricultural productivity loss (Anto-nangelo et al. 2021; Agegnehu et al. 2017). Additionally, the current climate change is causing a dramatic decline in global incomes, which is directly related to food scarcity (Kogo et al. 2021). As a result, proper land use combined with climate change mitigation is favoured. The application of biochar to soils benefits both climate change and land use by promoting carbon sequestration as well as agricul-tural development. As a result, recent efforts to improve the utilisation of biochar as a co-compost additive have gained increased interest.Increased soil salinity is a major environmental concern that affects approximately 932 million hectares globally (Daliakopoulos et al. 2016). Co-composting with biochar may alleviate soil salinisation, as biochar improves the chemical and physical properties of salty soils by promoting salt leaching (Lashari et al. 2013). Additionally, using stable carbon-rich materials such as biochar, which is an emerg-ing alternative to a variety of soil organic amendments, can help overcome soil mineralisation (Agegnehu et al. 2017 ). Thus, co-composting with biochar is a viable strategy for improving soil fertility, organic carbon, and crop yields (Agegnehu et al. 2017; Yuan et al. 2017a). Co-composting with biochar can provide nutrients and improve nutrient uti-lisation, raise the pH of the soil at a specific application rate, and increase the soil's water retention capacity, particularly in sandy and clayey soils (Antonangelo et al. 2021; Ageg-nehu et al. 2016a). As a result, recent research has examined the potential uses of co-composted biochar to accelerate the composting process and the formation of a stabilised end product to maximise carbon sequestration and soil fertility potentials (Antonangelo et al. 2021; Sánchez-García et al. 2015; Zhang and Sun 2014).2423 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Influence of co‑composted biochar on soils, plant growth and yieldsTable  13 summarises the major effects of co-composted biochar on agricultural crops and soil characteristics. It can be clearly noted that co-composting biochar with substrates improves the soils' physicochemical properties. Meanwhile, it enhances crop yields and improves the overall health sta-tus. Thus, co-composting with biochar not only reduces gaseous emissions during the composting process, but also increases crop productivity.Naeem et al. (2018) demonstrated that co-composted bio-char application decreased the pH of the soil and indicated that it could improve corn yields on alkaline soils. However, Major et al. (2010) reported that co-compost supplements could raise the soil pH and increase the retention of basic cations in acidic soils, thereby improving crop nutrition. As a result, acidic soils benefit from alkaline biochar; however, slightly alkaline biochar can still be used in alkaline soils (Naeem et al. 2018; Major et al. 2010).Biochar contains essential macro- and micronutrients, including nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, and calcium, which crops can utilise (Manolikaki and Diamadopoulos 2017). Co-composted biochar improves soil nutrient condi-tions by increasing the nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, and calcium values as well as the cation-exchange capacity of the soil (Cao et al. 2018; Qayyum et al. 2017). Thus, soils retain a greater amount of nutrients and cations for subsequent plant uptake (Agegnehu et al. 2017). According to Hong and Lu, co-composted biochar can increase the bioavailability of phosphorus in soils and reduce the need for additional phos-phorus fertilisers in supplemented soils (Hong and Lu 2018).The application of co-composed biochar to soils can increase the organic carbon content of the soil as well as soil moisture. Agegnehu et al. (2015) observed that when bio-char was added to fertiliser-amended soils, the carbon content increased from 0.93 to 1.25%, while the moisture content increased from 18 to 23%. Similar findings of increased soil moisture content in soils supplemented with co-composted biochar have been published (Naeem et al. 2018). Moreo-ver, biochar can enhance the porosity and physical quality of soils, which can stimulate aggregation and restructur -ing of the soil's porosity arrangement, thereby affecting the soil's water retention capacity (Sun and Lu 2014). Several other reports support this conclusion (Guo et al. 2020a; Agegnehu et al. 2015; Bass et al. 2016; Liang et al. 2014).However, not all studies demonstrated beneficial effects of biochar-amended soils on crop yield or growth. Bor -chard et al. (2014) discovered no effect of biochar addition on corn yield, either positive or negative. Xu et al. (2016) observed a decrease in Suaeda salsa biomass following biochar application compared to the non-applied crop, as well as a slight enhancement of sodic saline soils following biochar amendment. Bass et al. (2016) observed an 18% decline in banana yield following biochar additions, but no effect on papaya production. Other researchers concluded that increased plant growth or yield is primarily due to inorganic fertiliser application rather than biochar addition, and thus that adding biochar to soils may have had no or a negative effect on plant growth or yield (Kamau et al. 2019; Sorrenti et al. 2019).According to Table  13, co-composted biochar has a sig-nificant potential to advance crop production; however, some reports indicate that it has a negligible effect on crop yield. Generally, prior to initiating the aerobic composting opera-tion, mixing biochar with compost substrates that are high in nutrients and low in organic carbon increases the agronomic value of biochar-amended soil. Thus, biochar co-composting may overcome biochar's low nutrient value, adjust nutrient delivery from the compost, and reduce contaminant and nutrient leaching, resulting in a promising soil amendment concept. However, adding biochar to agricultural crops alone has not resulted in increased crop yields (Hagemann et al. 2017b; Graber et al. 2010). Therefore, as previously discussed, the application methods for biochar in soils are critical in determining its potential impact.To summarise, adding biochar to composted substrates after the composting process has been completed and prior to soil application may improve soil properties and plant growth (Cao et al. 2018; Naeem et al. 2018; Safaei Khorram et al. 2019). However, adding biochar at the start of the com-posting process (co-composting) has various advantages. Głąb et al. (2018) investigated the enhanced water holding capacity of sandy soils amended with co-composted biochar. Kammann et al. (2015) demonstrated increased nitrate reten-tion, which prevents it from leaching out of soils following the application of co-composted biochar, due to its nano/microporosity and ion water holding capacity. Additionally, it was reported that co-composted biochar had a greater effect on crop yields and soil quality (Hagemann et al. 2018).Co-composting with biochar can enhance the interac-tions between biochar and compostable substrates, thereby increasing the function of both materials (Wu et al. 2016). Moreover, this combination accelerates the formation of phenolic and carboxylic groups on the surface of biochar, thereby increasing its reactivity (Wiedner et al. 2015). Fur -thermore, the addition of biochar aids in the humification of the mixture and improves the quality of the compost. After reacting with biochar during the humification stage, heavy metals in compost piles are immobilised (Guo et al. 2020a). As a result, co-composted biochar added to soils accom-plishes two goals: (i) it effectively stabilises organic matter, and (ii) it increases the agronomic value of the composted material, implying that coupling biochar and compost may serve a similar function to chemical fertilisers.2424 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 13  Impact of co-composted biochar on soil characteristics and agricultural crop productivityVarious biochar substrates were studied along with the crops used. General improvements in soil and crop productivity are observedBiochar substrate Crop used Impacts on soil Impacts on plant ReferencesGreen waste Apple Not mentioned Improved stem thickness; no impact on yieldEyles et al. (2015)Bamboo Corn Improved soil available phosphorus and total nitrogenEnhanced plant growth and production Doan et al. (2015)Grape pomace and rice husk Ryegrass Enhanced soil nutrient retaining capacity Improved dry matter production by up to 78%Manolikaki and Diamadopoulos (2017)Palm fruit bunch Cucumber Improved soil cation-exchange capacity, carbon, nitrogen and water holding capacityEnhanced plant biomass and fruit productionCao et al. (2018)Waste willow wood (Salix spp.) Corn (Zea mays) Increased dissolved organic carbon, available phosphorus, calcium and cation-exchange capacity & improved soil water retention and lowered nitrous oxide emissions over timeIncreased yield; increased nutrient uptake by plantsAgegnehu et al. (2016a)Eupatorium adenophorum Corn (Zea mays) Improved soil cation-exchange capacity and calcium, potassium, and magnesiumYield increased by 243% Pandit et al. (2019)Acacia (Acacia spp.) Barley (Hordeum vulgare)Improved soil moisture retention and increased dissolved organic carbon by 34% and cation-exchange capacity by 24%, and improved soil fertilityYield increased Agegnehu et al. (2016b)Wheat straw Corn Improved soil organic carbon, nitrogen, phos-phorus and potassium content, reduced pHIncreased leaf chlorophyll content Naeem et al. (2018)Hardwood Apple Improved soil organic carbon and bioavailable phosphorus quantity by up to 300%Enhanced shoot number and a trunk diameter of apple trees by up to 23–26%Safaei Khorram et al. (2019)Oak Grape (Viti) and green-house tomato (Lyco -persicon esculentum)Increased soil pH, nutrient contents, dissolved organic carbon, and improved biological activity of the soilEnhanced both fruits quality and crops yieldSánchez-Monedero et al. (2019)Willow Peanut Enhanced soil organic carbon, soil water con-tent and cation-exchange capacityImproved seed production and total pod production by 22–23%, respectivelyAgegnehu et al. (2015)Willow Papaya and banana Improved soil organic carbon, soil water con-tent, cation-exchange capacity, potassium and calcium contentNo impact on Papaya yield; reduced banana production by 18%Bass et al. (2016)Garden peat Wheat Improved phosphorus, potassium, and total nitrogen value of soilEnhanced grain production by 27% Qayyum et al. (2017)Oak residue Grape Improved carbon sequestration and soil avail-able nutrientsImproved yield by 50% Oldfield et al. (2018)Wood Quinoa Enhanced soil water retention capacity Improved biomass production by 68% Kammann et al. (2015)2425 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Mitigation of salinity and drought stressesThe primary stressors affecting global crop yields are salin-ity and drought (Kanwal et al. 2017), whereby their presence can significantly impair nutrient uptake, growth, and plant production. Drought, in particular, can deplete crop chloro-phyll levels and gas exchange capacity by inducing oxida-tive stress (Abbas et al. 2018a). Several studies have demon-strated the beneficial effects of co-composting with biochar on soils in terms of alleviating salinity and drought stress and increasing crop yields (Lashari et al. 2013; Artiola et al. 2012), where biochar addition improves the water-holding capacity of soils, the amount of water available to the soil, and the biological and physical characteristics of soils during drought (Artiola et al. 2012; Maienza et al. 2017).Similarly, Jačka et al. (2018) demonstrated that the sur -face area of biochar (hydrogen bonds) could efficiently inter -act with water molecules and increase the water retention capacity of soils by 5%. Furthermore, Burrell et al. (2016) reported that co-composted straw biochar improved soil aggregation stabilisation, which increased available water to plants. Moreover, biochar addition could affect the physi-ological and morphological characteristics of crops grown in stressed soils. Abbas et al. ( 2018a ) indicated an improve -ment in photosynthetic rate, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance, chlorophyll content, and water utilisation rate in drought-stressed soils following application of rice straw-derived biochar, as well as an increase in the wheat crop's antioxidant enzymatic activities. Similar findings revealed that adding 3% biochar increased the available water con-tent, biomass density, and photosynthesis of plants exposed to drought by 24, 35 and 39%, respectively (Hashem et al. 2019). On the other hand, some reports indicated a slight increase in the water-holding capacity of drought-stressed soil amended with biochar (Keshavarz Afshar et al. 2016 ; Tanure et al. 2019).The regulation of enzymes, microbes, and phytohor -mones induced by biochar has the potential to alleviate salinity-stressed soils. Lu et al. (2015) revealed that incor -porating manure co-composted with biochar increased the activity of phosphatase and urease in saline-stressed soils, thereby mitigating the effect of salinity on crops. Similarly, it was observed that plants grown in saline soil amended with biochar had lower sodium levels, polyamines/polyamine oxi -dase activity, as well as jasmonic and abscisic acid levels (Farhangi-Abriz and Torabian 2017). Additionally, biochar may enhance the salinity effect via reduction and sorption of sodium uptake by crops (Ali et al. 2017). Overall, the addition of biochar can improve the crops' salt tolerance ability in salinity-stressed soils by decreasing mineral accu-mulation, sodium uptake, as well as phytohormone and sto-matal conductance regulation (Ali et al. 2017).Interactions with heavy metals in soils and plantsCo-composting with biochar has been shown to have a significant effect on the speciation and bioavailability of heavy metals, as well as the ability to immobilise met -als in amended soils (Ouyang et al. 2017). Furthermore, it has been shown to reduce cadmium discharge from the soil into nearby bodies of water (Ouyang et al. 2017). Simi-larly, co-composting with biochar derived from woody bio-mass decreased zinc, lead, and cadmium concentrations in amended soils by 92, 86, and 5%, respectively (Karer et al. 2018).The following mechanisms can be attributed to the sta-bilisation of heavy metals in biochar-amended soils: (i) the high specific surface area and extensive porosity of bio-char enhance metal adsorption capabilities (Ouyang et al. 2017); and (ii) biochar's sorption capacity is linearly cor -related with the presence of oxygen-containing functional groups on its surfaces(Zhang et al. 2014d). Functional groups on the surface of biochar, such as hydroxyl, carboxyl, and phenolic, are critical for heavy metal retention when co-composted biochar is applied to soils (Uchimiya et al. 2011). However, the ability of biochar to remove heavy metals is entirely dependent on the type of heavy metal and the soil characteristics. According to Kloss et al., biochar application increased the amount of molybdenum, while decreasing the amount of copper, manganese, and cadmium in plants (Kloss et al. 2014 ). Uchimiya et al. reported that biochar could help stabilise heavy metals [such as copper(II) and lead(II)] in acidic, low organic carbon, and low cation-exchange capac-ity soils (Uchimiya et al. 2011).Biochar has an alkaline pH, which is typically higher than that of soils; thus, biochar has the potential to immobilise metals, particularly in soils with a low pH (Puga et al. 2015). Kloss et al. discovered that adding biochar to soil can sig-nificantly increase arsenic levels, which could contaminate subsequent groundwater in areas with heavy rainfall (Kloss et al. 2014 ). Similarly, Beiyuan et al. observed an increase in arsenic mobilities and bioavailability in soil amended with biochar, which they attribute to the pH change following biochar amendment (Beiyuan et al. 2017). Additionally, bio-char-amended soil has the potential to alter the rate of heavy metal uptake by plants. For example, Zhou et al. observed a decrease in the exchangeable rate of heavy metals from soils to plants, which resulted in less metal build-up in plants (Zhou et al. 2018a). Similarly, in soils supplemented with biochar, heavy metals migration to above-ground plant parts was reduced (Zhu et al. 2015). It was noted that mine soils amended with biochar decreased the bioavailability of zinc, lead, and cadmium by 54, 50, and 56%, respectively, reduc-ing the plants' uptake of heavy metals (Puga et al. 2015).2426 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3SummaryThis section thoroughly investigated the impact of utilising biochar within the composting process, demonstrating clear agronomic and climate mitigation related benefits. Our anal-ysis confirms that the composting process, along with the subsequent long-term storage in soils, is a robust biochar-based carbon sink application. However, it is recommended to address the following points moving forward.• Several studies have established the beneficial effects of biochar-amended soils on crop health and yields; how -ever, this effect is highly variable depending on soil type, biochar application method, and plant type. As a result, the specific mechanisms by which biochar exerts its vari-ous effects require further investigation.• The subsequent immobilisation of heavy metals in soils is a critical constraint on expanding the use of co-com-posted biochar in soils, resulting in metals deficiency in plants. Thus, optimising the degree of immobilisation of heavy metals in order to avoid heavy metal deficiency in plants is an important area of future research.• Long-term field applications of co-composted biochar in soils are necessary to assess the potential effect on soils, plants, and long-term strategies for contaminants mitigation. Additionally, the periodic application of co-composted biochar requires additional research.• While plant-derived biochar received considerable atten-tion, there are still constraints on utilising other high-value feedstocks, such as seaweeds and fish shells.• Additional research is needed to compare co-composted biochar to other organic and inorganic fertilisers in terms of efficiency, disadvantages, and environmental impact.• Continuous amending of co-composted biochar can result in excess of nutrients being added to the soil, particularly nitrogen and phosphorus, resulting in water pollution (groundwater eutrophication). As a result, optimising the application rate concerning the plant's consumption rate is necessary and will continue to be a focus of future research.• Life cycle assessments of the greenhouse gas potential of soil amended with co-composted biochar are urgently needed to determine the degree of environmental impact associated with the application of such co-compost in comparison with standard compost without the addition of biochar and inorganic fertilisers.Environmental remediationThe global community is currently facing unprecedented environmental concerns. Contaminants emitted from resi-dential, commercial, and industrial sources frequently affect the environment (Monisha et al. 2021). The litera-ture demonstrates that water and soil are more vulnerable to both organic and inorganic contaminants mainly caused by human activity. However, technological developments in water and soil remediation have accelerated recently. In this context, the utilisation of biochar in environmental reme -diation applications has emerged as a highly promising technique. This approach facilitates value maximisation, in which biochar can carry out a remediation role in conjunc-tion with its carbon sequestration purpose. This section will further investigate the dimensions related to the use of bio-char in water treatment and soil remediation applications. Figure  6 illustrates the various aspects in which value is created in this context.Water remediationGlobal concern about water pollution and the associated challenges related to the production and disposal of mas-sive amounts of industrial effluents as well as stormwater has prompted the scientific community to explore effica -cious and cost-effective solutions (Arslanoğlu et al. 2020). As a result, biochar has been promoted as a viable option for treating water contaminated with various emergent pol-lutants (Kamali et al. 2017). In general, the technical effec-tiveness of biochar-assisted water treatment pathways is heavily influenced by operational parameters such as ease of application, treatment efficacy, process robustness, scal-ability, and suitability for integration with other water treat-ment strategies (Kamali et al. 2021). Indeed, the sorption potential of biochar is attributed to its unique physicochemi-cal properties, including specific surface area, ion exchange capacity, microporosity, and loading capacity. The unique Fig. 6  Applications of biochar in the environmental remediation con-texts. Pristine and engineered biochar could be employed in a variety of applications, including water treatment, soil remediation, and car -bon sequestration, hence mitigating climate change. Converting bio-genic residues to biochar enables further value development from a waste management perspective2427 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3characteristics of the as-prepared biochar samples dictate how various contaminants interact with it via various mecha-nisms (Qiu et al. 2021; Zhang et al. 2020c). The following section discusses the current state, challenges, sustainabil-ity concerns, and knowledge gap associated with biochar’s potential in the remediation of contaminated water.Synthesis of biochar and the related physicochemical attributesIt is generally understood that the surface chemistry (i.e. charge, functional groups, elemental composition, and acid -ity/basicity), as well as the morphological characteristics (specific surface area, and pore distribution) of the biochar, are all important factors influencing its adsorptive capac-ity (Xiang et al. 2019; Akhil et al. 2021). Nature of the feedstock, pyrolysis operational parameters (i.e. pyrolysis temperature, heating rate, residence time, and carrier gas type/flow), and surface functionalisation/activation play a paramount role in imparting the biochar its adsorptive fea-tures (Ersan et al. 2017; Krasucka et al. 2021). Exploring the relationships between these variables and biochar fea-tures is of interest for synthesising a ‘model’ biochar with optimised physicochemical properties for water remediation. Therefore, this section will thoroughly discuss the relation-ship between biochar synthesis conditions and their phys-icochemical properties.Thermochemical treatment is conventionally used to con-vert biomass into biochar. The conversion scheme varies depending on the treatment temperature, residence time, heating rate, and the reaction atmosphere. The composition of the biochar is mainly dependent on the parent raw mate-rials (i.e. agricultural residues and forestry wastes) utilised in its production (Fan et al. 2017). In other words, the per -centage of cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin in different biomasses will determine the elemental composition of the biochar. Mostly, the larger the lignin content in biomass, the greater the fixed carbon content in the resultant biochar (Vyavahare et al. 2019). Increased cellulose and hemicel-lulose concentrations in the biomass result in an additional microporous structure, whereas increased lignin content results in significant mesoporous structures with a large surface area and increased aromaticity (Solanki and Boyer 2017).In general, biochar is composed of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and traces of elements such as alkali and alkaline earth metals, with carbon accounting for more than 50% of the total weight% (excluding manure and sludge-based biochar). Both alkali and alkaline earth metals could directly influence the cation and anion exchange loading capacities as well as the pH value of the prepared biochar (Boakye et al. 2019). Furthermore, most biochar produced from agricultural or forest residues has high carbon content in comparison with the other types of biochar, which results in a higher yield as well as carbon- and oxygen-containing functionalities that serve as additional effective sites for capturing target pollutants (Huang et al. 2019c). Similarly, the biochar produced from industrial and municipal solid wastes typically has a very high content of ash and non-organic components, improving the biochar loading capacity for phosphate (Takaya et al. 2016). The literature shows that the excessive mineral content in the biochar, which could occupy the available binding sites and hence, deteriorates the biochar porous network structure, affects the overall surface activity adversely.The pyrolysis temperature has a significant effect on the properties of the resulting biochar. The aromaticity, carbon content, microporosity, surface area, and hydrophobicity increase as the operating temperature increases. Similarly, as the pyrolysis temperature increases, the pH of the bio-char increases due to the increased ash content. Low tem-perature–biochar (< 500 °C) exhibits low polarity, a low car -bon/nitrogen ratio, and a higher concentration of dissolved organic carbon in addition to functional moieties containing oxygen. In contrast, high-temperature–biochar (> 500 °C) possesses low acidity, caused by loss of oxygen and hydro-gen-containing functionalities (Pokharel et al. 2020a). It is believed that negatively charged oxygen-containing groups such as alcohols, carbonyl, and carboxylic acid enhance the biochar's cation-exchange capacity towards cationic pollut-ants. Similarly, it is believed that the oxonium functional group enhances the biochar's anion exchange capacity (Pokharel et al. 2020a; Janu et al. 2021).Parameters affecting the adsorption process in static and dynamic water treatment systemsNumerous studies, particularly at the laboratory scale, have examined the adsorption pathway using synthetic pollutant solutions (Xu et al. 2021; Yao et al. 2021; Yu et al. 2019a; El-Shafie et al. 2021; Hassan et al. 2020). However, bio-char can be considered as a viable solution if employed at a large industrial scale (continuous systems) for water treatment. In comparison with synthetic solutions, waste -water is discharged into aquatic systems in large quantities and with complex characteristics, which can affect the bio-char's adsorptive performance (Reguyal and Sarmah 2018). In laboratories, the batch (static) mode is frequently used to determine the adsorption kinetics, isotherms, and ther -modynamics of the adsorbents in use. However, due to the large volumes of released effluents that must be treated, this approach is rarely used in industrial sectors (Mazur et al. 2018).Typically, dynamic, fixed bed (continuous flow) systems are recommended in this case because they closely resem-ble large-scale industrial applications (de Franco et al. 2428 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 32017). Despite the widespread use of fixed-bed columns, packing the bed with pristine biochar may be impractical due to its low mechanical strength, low density, and poor hydraulic conductivity (Jung et al. 2017). To overcome these constraints, biochar particles encapsulated in a poly -meric matrix, as well as other strategies for physicochemical modification, can be used (Panahi et al. 2020). Moreover, the presence of other competitive species may significantly impair the biochar's adsorptive capacity (e.g. inorganic and organic pollutants). Thus, understanding the effect of various operational parameters on adsorption processes in batch or fixed-bed modes is considered fundamental for a thorough understanding of the entire process (Baltrėnaitė-Gedienė et al. 2020; Shin et al. 2021).Operating mode Adsorption procedures are defined as the capacity of biochar (a solid adsorbent) to concentrate a specific adsorbate on its surface via an adsorbent-adsorb-ate interface in order to accomplish the desired separation or purification objective. Batch adsorption is the simplest method for promoting solid–liquid interaction. In this approach, a fixed amount of biochar is mixed with a known volume and concentration of pollutant solution in a sealed vessel. The system is agitated to ensure homogeneity of the solution, the initiation of solid–liquid interaction, and the acceleration of mass transfer until the saturation plateau is reached (Patel 2021). The performance of the biochar is pri-marily determined through the use of mathematical models of adsorption kinetics, isotherms, and thermodynamics.Fixed-bed columns are frequently used in continuous-flow systems. The operation of this unit begins with the feeding of a pollutant solution into a column packed with a fixed amount of biochar. Adsorption equilibrium is reached when the adsorbate concentrations at the inlet and outlet are equal. Typically, fixed bed technology operates as a func-tion of bed height and adsorbate flow rate, which are used to construct breakthrough curves for subsequent analysis. While evaluating the purification process via column studies is more practical than batch studies, this does not negate the importance of batch studies (Thirunavukkarasu et al. 2021 ).Nascimento et al. investigated the adsorption of two dif-ferent types of cationic (basic blue 12) and anionic (reactive black 5) dyes onto wood residue-based biochar in batch and fixed-bed operation modes. They reported that the maxi-mum loading capacities of as-used biochar were 35.67 and 80.41 mg   g−1 for reactive black 5 and basic blue 12, respec -tively. Additionally, the breakthrough curve studies deter -mined that 100 and 224 L of reactive black 5 and basic blue 12 can be purified using the fixed-bed pilot plant, respec-tively (do Nascimento et al. 2021).Primary pH of the target pollutant The pH of the contami-nant solution is a critical parameter in the adsorption pro-cess because it has a significant effect on the adsorbent sur -face charge, solution chemistry, and degree of ionisation of the adsorbate, as well as the competitive adsorption between hydron/hydroxide and target pollutants (Al-Saad et al. 2019; Xiang et al. 2020a). Numerous studies have established that the protonation and de-protonation of adsorbents contain-ing functional groups in acidic and alkaline environments, respectively, are maintained by the effect of initial solution pH. Katiyar et al. concluded that raising the pH of the solu-tion from 1 to 5 caused the surface of the biochar to become more negatively charged, favouring copper adsorption with almost 100% removal via electrostatic interactions. At a pH range of 4–5, the maximum loading capacity of Ascophyl-lum nodosum-based biochar was achieved. Beyond a pH of 5, a small reduction in copper adsorption is noted, which may be attributed  to the formation of hydroxo copper(I) hydroxide, which impedes the interaction of biochar and copper ions (Katiyar et  al. 2021). Additionally, changes in pH can significantly affect the electrostatic interactions as measured by the zeta potential (point of zero charge) of the biochar. When the solution pH is less than the point of zero charge, this implies that  the biochar surface is posi-tively charged, which enhances the adsorption of negatively charged pollutants, and vice versa when the solution pH is greater than the point of zero charge (El-Azazy et al. 2020; El-Azazy et al. 2021a; Kelm et al. 2019).Biochar dosage The concentration of biochar has a substan-tial effect on the adsorption process. Determining the opti-mal dosage, above which further increases in biochar have no noticeable effect, is critical. Fundamentally, increas-ing the amount of biochar implies an increase in pollutant removal efficacy as the accessible surface area with more adsorptive sites increases (Fan et al. 2017). Meanwhile, due to the unsaturation state of biochar's unoccupied adsorptive sites, any increase in a concentration above the optimised value does not affect the adsorption process. This could be explained by the screen effect phenomenon, which occurs when biochar particles aggregate at higher concentrations (Wang et al. 2017d; Güzel et al. 2017).Biochar particle size Another critical parameter affecting the adsorption and ion exchange pathways is the particle size of the biochar. As the particle size decreases, the bio-char surface area increases, shortening the adsorbate's dif-fusion path and ultimately increasing the adsorption capac-ity. Typically, the use of biochar powder is impractical due to operational disadvantages such as difficulty extracting from aqueous solutions, low mechanical strength, low den-sity, poor hydraulic conductivity, and high flow resistance in a continuous-flow system (Quesada et  al. 2020). Kang et al. investigated the effect of biochar particle size on phen-anthrene adsorption. The equilibrium times decreased from 2429 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 34.6–17.9  days (original biochar) to 1–4.6  days (powdered biochar) for the different particle sizes of 4, 2, and 1 mm and 500, 250, 150, and 75 μm (biochar without grinding), 200, 150, and 75 μm (biochar passed through 250 μm-size sieves), and 106, 75, and 63  μm (biochar passed through 125 μm-size sieves). These findings demonstrate the critical role of biochar particle size in optimising organic compound adsorption (Kang et al. 2018).Interaction time Interaction time is undeniably one of the most influential variables included in adsorption investiga-tions. During the initial stages of adsorption, the abundance of void adsorptive sites significantly increases the adsorp-tion rate. Following that, as the adsorbate gradually occupies the binding sites, the adsorption rate decreases until an equi-librium state is reached due to the gradual saturation of the adsorbent active sites. Theoretically, several kinetic models based on distinct theories are used to specify the equilib-rium time, mass transfer rate, and adsorption governing stage. These models include pseudo-first-order, pseudo-second-order, intraparticle diffusion, Boyd, Bingham, and Elovich (Abdel Maksoud et al. 2020). The effect of interac-tion time on ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin adsorption onto iron (II, III) oxide/graphene-modified biochar was systemat-ically investigated. The authors reported that the maximum loading capacities of modified biochar for ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin were 283.44 mg   g−1 (equilibrium time of 36 h) and 502.37 mg   g−1 (equilibrium time of 24 h), respectively (Zhou et al. 2019a).Adsorption temperature Temperature can have an effect on the adsorbent-adsorbate system, depending on the biochar/adsorbate characteristics and the exothermic or endothermic nature of the reaction. For example, the temperature can affect both the adsorption rate and the loading capacities of biochar. In the case of exothermic reactions, increasing the temperature of the reaction may inhibit adsorption by weak -ening the physical bond between the adsorptive sites on the biochar surface and the adsorbate (Ahmed et al. 2017). Cai et al. (2019) demonstrated that as the temperature increased, the solubility of oil increased, resulting in increased interac-tions between oil molecules and the solvent, thereby inhibit-ing oil molecule adsorption onto the biochar. Contrarily, in the case of an endothermic reaction, an increase in the tem-perature may promote adsorbate migration onto the surface of the biochar. Several  studies  corroborated this assertion (Wu et al. 2018; Zhou et al. 2019b). Additionally, elevated temperatures may strengthen the electron donor and accep-tor, and hence, improve the π–π  electron donor–acceptor interactions between organic pollutants and biochar (Ai et al. 2019).Primary pollutant's concentration The influence of pri-mary concentration is highly relevant to the adsorption of aquatic pollutants. As pollutant concentrations increase, the biochar's loading capacity increases proportionately until the biochar becomes completely saturated. This is due to an increase in the concentration gradient between aquatic pollutants (molecules or ions) and specific sorptive sites on the biochar surface, which drives the adsorption process up to saturation. In contrast, no further upgrading occurs (Elgarahy et al. 2019). Numerous isotherm models based on the researched parameters; two (e.g. Langmuir, Freundlich, Temkin, Dubinin–Radushkevich), three (e.g. Hill, Toth, and Slip), and four (e.g. Baudu and Weber–van Vliet) were used to attempt a systematic understanding of the adsorption isotherms. Li et al. (2020d) demonstrated that the loading capacities of lanthanum-coated biochar-based urban dewa-tered sewage sludge were closely related  to the primary phosphate concentrations in order to overcome the strict mass transfer resistance.System complexity The complexity of the system caused by the coexistence of inorganic, organic, and ionic species can significantly affect the adsorption process. As a result, understanding the synergism or antagonistic effects of these interferents is critical for optimising the efficacy of the water treatment process. The presence of these competitive spe-cies may result in the formation of complexes, lowering the biochar's affinity for target pollutants. On the contrary, these species may enhance the performance of the adsorption pro-cess via certain intermolecular forces, such as co-adsorption and sating-out phenomena (Ahmed and Hameed 2018). Choudhary et  al.  investigated the competitive adsorption of copper and nickel metal ions and malachite green dye molecules and reported that the loading capacities of Opun-tia ficus-indica-based biochar for copper decreased from 13.76 to 10.65 and 10.24 mg   g−1, respectively, in binary and ternary systems. Similarly, the loading capacities towards nickel declined from 11.36 to 5.59 and 4.49 mg   g−1 in binary and ternary systems, respectively (Choudhary et al. 2020).Flow rate of pollutant feeding solution In a fixed-bed sys-tem, the inlet flow rate significantly affects the profile of the breakthrough curve due to variations in the feed superficial velocity and interaction time. Reduced flow rates maximise the interaction time between the feed solution and the packed biochar, ensuring a sufficient residence time for adsorption (Thirunavukkarasu et al. 2021). Jung et al. investigated the adsorption performance of electrochemically modified bio-char calcium-alginate beads towards phosphate at flow rates of 2.5, 5.0, and 7.5 mL   min−1, with a fixed amount of bio-char and a fixed concentration of primary phosphate. They demonstrated that increasing the inflow rates significantly decreased breakthrough and saturation times from 168.3 2430 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3to 32.9 min and 308.0 to 322.5 min, respectively. This can be explained by the phosphate ions' insufficient residence time on the modified biochar surface to achieve equilibrium (Jung et al. 2017).Moreover, there is a clear relationship between the super -ficial velocity of the liquid, the flow rate, and the mass trans-fer resistance. Evidently, the greater the liquid's superficial velocity, the less resistance there is to mass transfer. How -ever, if the adsorption rate is determined by intraparticle diffusion, the liquid superficial velocity is unlikely to have a significant effect. Accordingly, feeding flow rate control is a critical operational parameter for achieving adequate resi -dence time, avoiding adsorbent channelling, and minimising liquid-film resistance (Fernández-González et al. 2019).Biochar bed height Another critical parameter affecting the fixed-bed adsorption system is the height of the biochar. Considering the pressure drop across the working system, utilising biochar with the appropriate mechanical strength and particle size is highly recommended to improve adsorp-tion performance. In practice, raising the bed height tends to increase the number of potential adsorptive sites, the time required for adsorbate to interact with biochar, and, as a result, the total amount of adsorbate captured (Abdel Maksoud et al. 2020). It is important to note that increasing the bed height reduces axial dispersion and eliminates the challenges associated with fluid maldistribution throughout the bed's length. By maintaining a ratio of 5 between bed height and column diameter, liquid maldistribution can be avoided, while axial dispersion can be kept to a minimum by maintaining a ratio of larger than 150 between bed height and adsorbent particle diameter (Inglezakis and Poulopou-los 2006). With increased bed heights of packed adsorbent between 2, 3 and 4 cm under constant flow rate (4 mL   min−1) and chromium concentration (100  mg   L−1),  the feeding solution widened the mass transfer zone, prolonged break -through and saturation times from 300 to 1260 min and 2640 to 4740 min, respectively, and thus enhanced the adsorptive performance of biochar (Nithya et al. 2020).The concentration of  pollutant feeding solution As is the case with batch (static) adsorption systems, the input con-centration of the pollutant feeding solution is a critical pro-cess parameter that affects both mass transfer and treatment process performance. During the biochar-adsorbate interac-tion, the larger concentration gradient, which is associated with a higher concentration of pollutant feeding solution, acts as a driving force for mass transfer during the adsorp-tion process. However, the residence time is insufficient to achieve the integral adsorption when the primary pol-lutant concentration is excessively high (Banerjee et  al. 2018). Vidhya et al. (2020) investigated the effect of various nickel ion concentrations on the adsorption of nickel onto coir pith-based biochar. With increasing inflow pollutant concentrations, a decrease in the length of the adsorption zone, a steeper breakthrough curve, and an increase in the diffusion coefficient were observed. This is explained by the progressive concentration gradient between the modi-fied biochar and nickel ions, which accelerates both biochar saturation and the breakthrough curve.Biochar optimisation for water treatment processesAs demonstrated in the preceding section, numerous and interacting variables influence the performance of biochar in water remediation. Furthermore, it can be concluded that the adsorption process is a complicated one that cannot be viewed from a single perspective. Therefore, a comprehen-sive overview is required to balance the need to meet process objectives (maximum biochar yield, maximum adsorption capacity, and maximum percent removal) with the need to maintain the process sustainability by minimising chemical consumption, workforce effort, time, and resources. As a result, one of the primary challenges inherent in this process is the appropriate selection and optimisation of process vari-ables in order to maximise biochar yield and performance. Therefore, the operation of predictive models serves to reduce the burden on the environment, improve method greenness, and contribute to the long-term goals of sustain -ability and circular bioeconomy (El-Azazy et al. 2020 ; El-Azazy et al. 2021a; Bhagat et al. 2020; Hiranjit 2015; Hodg-son et al. 2016; Karimifard and Alavi Moghaddam 2018; Kostić et al. 2016; Lakshmi et al. 2021; Puccini et al. 2017).Using a black-box model to design a process and optimise a response statistically was once common in the engineering field. Until now, considering such an approach to chemistry, environmental engineering, and the production and applica-tion of biochar in water treatment is still in infancy. Coupling environmental bioremediation techniques with artificial neu-ral networks, design of experiments, response surface meth-odology, and multiple linear regression is currently trending, owing to the growing awareness of sustainability and green chemistry (Terayama et al. 2021 ). In general, coupling an analytical process to the competency and efficiency of these predictive models could be utilised constructively to better understand the complicated biochar-pollutant interactions. When fully developed, these models may enable the auto-mation of biochar production and the commodification of biochar applications in water remediation.Generally, the literature indicates that optimisation efforts are often focused on two distinct contexts: (i) biochar pro-duction and (ii) application in water treatment processes. Additionally, these efforts are contingent upon the intended application of the biochar and whether it will be used in a batch or continuous mode (Bhagat et al. 2020 ; Hodg-son et al. 2016; Karimifard and Alavi Moghaddam 2018; 2431 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Lakshmi et al. 2021). The optimisation of the pyrolysis process entails adjusting variables such as the pyrolysis temperature, solid residence time, vapour residence time, heating rate, and impregnation ratio in the case of chemically modified biochar (Puccini et al. 2017; Ameen Hezam Saeed et al. 2022; Batista and Gomes 2021; Te et al. 2021). Simi-larly, other efforts were focused on variables such as biochar particle size, the sample mass, and the gaseous atmosphere in which the biochar is prepared (Hodgson et al. 2016; Kwak et al. 2019; Manyà et al. 2018; Pradhan et al. 2020; Rojas-Mayorga et al. 2013; Saadat et al. 2018; Xu et al. 2019).In batch mode operation, variables affecting the removal process such as pH, adsorbent dose, initial concentration of the contaminant, and contact time have also been optimised (El-Azazy et al. 2020; El-Azazy et al. 2021b; El-Azazy et al. 2021c; Bardestani et al. 2019; Beakou et al. 2017; Kalderis et al. 2017; Lenin Sundar et al. 2021; Roy et al. 2018; Turk Sekulic et al. 2018; Zhao et al. 2021d). Variables such as fixed-bed height, flow rate, the particle size of the biochar adsorbent, pH, and concentration of the inlet solution are optimised in continuous mode operation (Biswas et al. 2020; Blagojev et al. 2019; Levio-Raiman et al. 2021; Sivara-jasekar et al. 2018; Suárez‐Vázquez et al. 2021). As a result, the target response (output) will vary according to the input variables assessed. The commonly optimised responses (out -put variables) are biochar yield, breakthrough time, contami-nant removal rate, and adsorption capacity (Qe, mg   g−1).The following subsections will provide a concise over -view of the most commonly used designs and black box models for optimising the use of biochar in water treatment strategies. This review excludes design theories, specifica-tions, and their associated benefits and drawbacks (Karimi-fard and Alavi Moghaddam 2018; Lakshmi et al. 2021; Ela-zazy 2017).Design of  experiments and  response surface methodol‑ogy The univariate analysis is the conventional method for determining the effect of various variables on a process. In this strategy, the effect of a single independent variable (input variable) on a single response (dependent variable) is simultaneously measured, while the remaining variables are held constant. Numerous researchers continue to use this method to produce biochar and its applications. Regard-less of the cost, time, and effort involved in developing such a technique, the lack of a holistic view of the process and its variable-variable interactions presents a significant challenge. As a result, the motivation to use the design of experiments, also referred to as DoE, emerged (Karimifard and Alavi Moghaddam 2018). Combining the design of experiments with the production of biochar or its applica-tion in the removal of contaminants  results in not only a significant reduction in the number of experimental runs but also a better understanding of variable interactions and thus, the generation of data with a high degree of reliability. The resulting mathematical model is used to create a compre-hensive picture of the process, indicating which variables significantly affect it, their magnitude, and their interaction with others (Elazazy 2017).The design of the experiment's approach is typically divided into two phases: screening and optimisation. The first phase mainly evaluates the process's input variables. The researcher typically proposes variable limits (upper and lower) based on preliminary experiments or prior knowl-edge. Numerous designs, including the definitive screen-ing design, the full factorial design, the fractional facto-rial design, the Plackett–Burman design, and the Taguchi design, can be used for screening. The subsequent phase uses statistically significant variables in the first phase as input, with their limits finely adjusted. The most frequently used optimisation techniques are central composite design, Box–Behnken design, Doehlert design, and d-optimal design.Response surface methodology is the approach that refers to the process of screening and/or optimisation followed by fitting the obtained mathematical models to the experimental data. The primary objective of response surface method-ology is to determine the optimal operating requirements for the desired system or to obtain a zone that meets those requirements. Choosing one of these designs requires con-sidering the experimental objective and the number of varia-bles to be investigated. Each of these phases is accompanied by a set of quality indicators, including analysis of variance, probability testing, correlation coefficient, and coefficient of determination. Figure  7 illustrates the various phases of the design of experiments and the associated verification procedures.The application of various design of experiments and response surface methodology approaches to optimise bio-char production and utilisation for the removal of various organic and inorganic contaminants is shown in Table  14. Additionally, the variation in input/output variables based on the intended application is demonstrated. As shown in Table  14, response surface methodology-based optimisation approaches, Box–Behnken design, and central composite design were more frequently used in the literature. Further -more, studies examining the contaminant adsorption process were more prevalent than those examining the effect of feed-stock parameters and pyrolysis conditions on biochar yield and physicochemical properties of the resulting biochar. Additionally, a few studies have been conducted to optimise pollutant removal in the continuous mode of operation.Artificial neural networks Artificial intelligence and machine learning are emergent statistical models that have been widely applied in various fields in recent years. These strategies are frequently based on the human brain's ability 2432 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3to process complex interactions between input and output variables. With the same objectives as the use of design of experiments in water bioremediation, the coupling of artificial neural network models to biochar production and utilisation is growing in popularity. However, with unprec-edented advancements in data processing software and hard-ware, as well as the volume and quality of data generated, approaches based on artificial neural networks are more powerful. Indeed, using data generated by artificial neural networks-based models for comprehending input/output data, contaminant fate, and adsorption process is promising (Lakshmi et al. 2021; Medeiros et al. 2022).As with design of experiments, the use of an artificial neural networks-based approach could be applied to any stage of the biochar's life cycle, from production to its appli-cation in water treatment, as well as recycling. The physico-chemical properties of the biochar, in particular, are used as indicators during the decision-making phase. In general, the algorithm used (artificial neural networks, support vector machine) transforms the obtained data into an index that aids in selecting the most appropriate biochar for water treatment. The chosen biochar can be used directly if it meets certain standards for remediation, or it can be further functionalised or activated (physically or chemically). The latter will be re-characterised and evaluated further using artificial neural networks, and the process will be repeated until a biochar meeting water treatment standard is obtained (Medeiros et al. 2022 ). Additionally, the use of artificial neural net -works and machine learning strategies can assist in deter -mining the reusability and reapplication of spent biochar in water treatment. Table  15 illustrates sample applications of approaches based on artificial neural networks, either alone or hybrid.Mechanisms of pollutant biosorptionAs previously stated, biochar can be produced via thermo-chemical conversion from a variety of carbonaceous materi-als under a variety of operating conditions such as reactor design, operating temperature, heating rate, residence time, flow gas type, and pre-/post-activation treatments (Chen et al. 2021c). Subsequently, the use of biochar may take on a variety of forms. Adsorption occurs when an adsorbate is adsorbed onto the surface of an adsorbent until an equilib-rium (saturation) plateau is reached.The process is divided into three distinct regions; the first, known as the clean zone, is devoid of adsorption. The sec-ond region is referred to as the mass transfer zone, which is where the adsorption occurs. The third zone is the exhausted zone, which is reached when equilibrium is achieved. The saturated region expands during the process, while the clean zone contracts. The mass transfer zone is impacted when the adsorbate concentration is increased; otherwise, it remains unaffected (Dai et al. 2019). This process is repeated until the adsorbent reaches saturation. Indeed, physisorption is a non-specific process characterised by mild attraction forces between the adsorbate and the biochar surface; in this sce-nario, multilayer adsorption is possible.The physical mechanisms are mostly modulated by the polarity of the adsorbate molecule and the adsorbent sur -face. Surface adsorption, electrostatic interaction, hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic interaction, π–π stacking, and van der Waals forces are all examples of physical mechanisms (Sophia A and Lima 2018). Chemisorption, on the other hand, is distinct and is established by more expressive forces resulting from the formation of chemical bonds between the biochar and adsorbate via electron sharing. Monolayer adsorption can be demonstrated in this scenario (Deng et al. 2017). Tables  16 and 17 describe various adsorption Fig. 7  Phases of experiment design. The design of experiments begins  with a screening of the input variables (related to feedstock, pyrolysis, or the adsorption process). The second stage is optimisa-tion, which involves the use of statistically significant data to con-struct the mathematical model. Each phase is typically accompanied by statistical analysis using  analysis of variance, also referred to as ANOVA2433 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Table 14  Predictive models, independent and dependent variables, and performance indicators for applying biochar in removing different pollutants from waterFeedstock Target pollutant(s) Optimisation approach Parameters optimised Optimised response variable(s)Design performance indicatorsReferencesLolium perenne, Mis-canthus x. giganteus, Fraxinus excelsior, Salix viminalis, Picea sitchensisZinc (II) Taguchi design—L9 orthogonal arrayTemperature, residence time, particle size, and gaseous atmosphere%Zinc adsorbed,Char yield and composi-tionAnalysis of variance Hodgson et al. (2016)Sewage sludge feedstock Phosphate Central composite design Pyrolysis temperature and time% Removal of phosphate, and pHAnalysis of variance, Fisher test value (F-value), probability value (P-value), R2 and R2-adjustedSaadat et al. (2018)Cattail (Typha latifolia) Phosphorous Box–Behnken design Lanthanum weight content in total biomass weight (feedstock parameters), pyrolysis temperature and main-tenance time (pyrolysis parameters)% Phosphate removal efficiencyR2 and Analysis of vari-anceXu et al. (2019)Shredded wood compris-ing 20% volume of spruce/fir and 80% pine (stem of Pinus strobus without bark)Lead (II) Central composite design Acidity of aqueous solu-tion (pH), agitation time, adsorbent mass, and initial concentration of lead (II)Biochar extraction efficiency (E (%)) and adsorption capacity (Q (mg  g−1))R2 and R2-adjusted Bardestani et al. (2019)Paper sludge/wheat husks 2,4-dichlorophenol Box–Behnken design pH, temperature, initial contaminant concentra-tion, and timeAdsorption% R2 and R2-adjusted, Analysis of varianceKalderis et al. (2017)Tea waste Fluoride Central composite design Adsorbent dose, contact time, and temperature% Fluoride removal R2, coefficient of variation, F-value, and P-valueRoy et al. (2018)Cassava Rind Malachite green Box–Behnken design Adsorption temperature, dose of absorbent, and initial dye concentrationAmount of malachite green adsorbed per unit mass of the adsorbentR2, coefficient of variation, F-value, and P-valueBeakou et al. (2017)Prunus armeniaca stones Lead (II), cadmium (II), nickel (II), naproxen, chlorophenolsAdsorbent dosage, pH initial contaminant concentrationYield%, percentage of adsorbate removal and equilibrium adsorption capacity, qeThe root mean square error and sum of the squares of the errorsTurk Sekulic et al. (2018)Date pits Tigecycline Box–Behnken design pH, adsorbent dose, ini-tial drug concentration, and contact time%Removal and adsorp-tion capacityR2 and R2-adjusted, R2 predicted, and analysis of varianceEl-Azazy et al. (2021b)Cow femur residues (bone char)Fluoride Fractional factorial designTemperature, heating rate, and residence timeYield%, and fluoride uptake (mg  g−1)Variance analysis Rojas-Mayorga et al. (2013)Pistachio nutshells and Aloe vera leavesSarafloxacin Plackett–Burman design pH, adsorbent dose, ini-tial drug concentration, and contact time%Removal and adsorp-tion capacityR2, R2-adjusted, R2-pre-dicted, and analysis of varianceEl-Azazy et al. (2020)2434 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 14  (continued)Feedstock Target pollutant(s) Optimisation approach Parameters optimised Optimised response variable(s)Design performance indicatorsReferencesOlive stones Clofazimine Box–Behnken design pH, adsorbent dose, ini-tial drug concentration, and contact time%Removal and adsorp-tion capacityR2 and R2-adjusted, R2-predicted, and analysis of varianceEl-Azazy et al. (2021c)Cow dung and sewage sludgeMethylene blue Central composite design Dose of biochar, initial methylene blue concen-tration, and the type of biocharBreakthrough time R2 and R2-adjusted, R2-predicted, and analysis of varianceSuárez‐Vázquez et al. (2021)Soil, peat, and lignocellu-losic material (straw)Atrazine (pesticide) Central composite design The inlet atrazine concen-tration, flow rate and pH of the fixed-bed column packed with wheat straw, soil, and peat% Removal and adsorp-tion capacityAnalysis of variance, lack-of-fitLevio-Raiman et al. (2021)Sugar beet shreds Copper (II) Box–Behnken design Concentration of the inlet solution, adsorbent dos-age, and pH of the inlet solutionBreakthrough time Analysis of variance and R2Blagojev et al. (2019)Aegle marmelos Correa fruitsRanitidine HCl Box–Behnken design Fixed-bed height, initial drug concentration, flow rate, and adsorbent particle size% Removal R2, R2-adjusted, R2-predicted, analysis of variance, lack-of-fitSivarajasekar et al. (2018)Sugarcane bagasse Zinc (II), copper (II) and nickel (II)Central composite design Initial adsorbent bed height, initial solute concentration, liquid flow rate, and airflow rate% Removal R2, R2-adjusted, R2-predicted, analysis of variance, lack-of-fitBiswas et al. (2020)Seaweed Ulva reticulata Reactive Red 120 Box–Behnken design Biochar dose, initial dye concentration and pH% Removal R2, R2-adjusted, analysis of variance, lack-of-fitLenin Sundar et al. (2021)This mainly includes the design of experiment-based approaches2435 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Table 15  Predictive models, independent and dependent variables, and model performance indicators for the application of biochar in removing different pollutants from waterThis mainly includes approaches based on principal component analysis and artificial neural networksFeedstock Target pollutant(s) Predictive model Parameters optimised Optimised response vari-able (s)Model performance indicatorsReferencesSawdust of white spruce (Picea glauca), canola (Brassica napus) and wheat (Triticum aesti-vum) strawLead (II) Principal component analysisFeedstock type, pyrolysis temperature, steam activationPhysical and chemi-cal properties of the biocharMultiple linear regression Kwak et al. (2019)Corn straw Chlortetracycline HCl Principal component analysispH, initial drug concen-tration, and coexisting anions% Removal Pearson’s correlation coefficientZhao et al. (2021d)Antep pistachio (Pistacia vera L.) shellsLead (II) Artificial neural networks Adsorbent dosage, initial concentration of lead (II) ions, initial pH, operating temperature, contact time% Removal Linear regression and minimum mean squared errorYetilmezsoy and Demirel (2008)Seaweed (Ulva reticulata) Reactive red 120 Adaptive Neuro-Fuzzy Inference SystemBed depth, flow rate, ini-tial dye concentration% Removal of the dye Error analysis, hybrid fractional error func-tion, average relative error, Marquardt’s per cent standard error deviation, absolute average relative error, R2, R2-adjustedLenin Sundar et al. (2021)Rice straw Naproxen Artificial neural networks pH, adsorbent dose, contact time% Removal of naproxen Correlation coefficient (R2)Bhattacharya et al. (2021)Agricultural residues Diclofenac, naproxen, and ibuprofenArtificial neural networks pH, concentration of the pollutants% Removal R2 values and mean squared errorMojiri et al. (2019)Date seed Lead (II), copper (II), nickel (II)Artificial neural net-works—six machine learning approachespH, ionic strength, initial concentration of the pollutants, contact timeAdsorption capacity R2 values and mean squared errorEl Hanandeh et al. (2021)Leaves of jackfruit, mango, and rubber plantsCadmium (II) Artificial neural networks in combination with genetic algorithmAqueous phase pH, initial cadmium (II) concen-tration, adsorbent dose, time, temperature% Removal of cadmium (II)R2 values, mean squared error, absolute average relative error, and standard deviationNag et al. (2018)Rambutan (Nephelium lappaceum) peelCopper (II) Artificial neural net-works, ANFIS and multiple MLRContact time, tempera-ture, biochar discharge, initial copper (II) concentration,Adsorption capability Pearson’s correlation, root mean square error or mean absolute errorWong et al. (2020)Date palm Ortho-cresol and phenol Artificial neural networks and nonlinear regres-sion generalised decay-functionFlow rate, bed depth, time, mass of the bed, initial concentrationResidual concentrations of both contaminants and breakthroughR2 and root mean square errorDalhat et al. (2021)2436 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 16  Loading capacities of different biochar-based materials towards different inorganic pollutantsRaw feedstock Temperature Target contaminant Pre-treatment Post-treatment Maximum adsorp-tion capacity (mg  g−1)Adsorption mechanism ReferencePomelo peel 250 °C Silver (I) Drying and impregnation with phosphoric acidPristine 137.4 Chemical adsorption Zhao et al. (2018a)Marine macro-algal 500 °C Copper (II) Immersing with iron (III) chloridePristine 69.37 Chemical adsorption Son et al. (2018)Corn straw 700 °C Cadmium (II) Washing and drying Pristine 73.32 Cation-π interaction Wang et al. (2018d)Cauliflower leaves 600 °C Copper (II) Oven drying Pristine 53.96 Electrostatic attraction, physisorption, ion exchange, and precipita-tionAhmad et al. (2018)Corn Straw 800 °C Cadmium (II) Drying Modification with ferric nitrate and calcination 800 °C46.9 Chemisorption, Electro-static interaction, and monolayer adsorptionKhan et al. (2020a)Rice husk 450–500 °C Chromium (VI) Acid or alkali treatment Modification with polyeth-yleneimine435.7 Chemical reduction and adsorptionMa et al. (2014)Waste mangosteen shells 350–700 °C Chromium (VI) Washing and drying Modification with zinc chloride341.4 Electrostatic interaction, surface complexation, ion exchange, and physi-cal adsorptionShan et al. (2020)Rice straw 700 °C Cadmium (II) Crushing Pristine 65.4 Cation exchange, pre-cipitation, physical adsorption, electrostatic attraction, and cation-π interactionDeng et al. (2019)Corn straw 300 °C Chromium (VI) Washing and drying UV-radiation 20.04 Surface complexation Peng et al. (2018a)Alternanthera philox-eroides600 °C Lead (II) Washing and drying Pristine 257.12 Precipitation, complexa-tion, and ion exchangeYang et al. (2014)Rice husk 600 °C Cadmium (II) Mixing with iron (III) nitrateSoaking with potassium permanganate79 Chemical adsorption, oxidation, π-interaction, and complexationSun et al. (2019)Lead (II) 148Bamboo wood 600 °C Silver (I) Oven drying Treating with hydrogen peroxide + nanoparticles zero-valent iron1217 Innersphere complexation and electrostatic attrac-tionWang et al. (2017e)Muskmelon peel 600 °C Zinc (II) Washing and drying Pristine 72.99 Liquid-film, and intrapar -ticle diffusionsKhan et al. (2017)Copper (II) 78.74Papermill sludge 720 °C Arsenic (V) Oven drying and acid washingPristine 34.1 Chemisorption Cho et al. (2017)Peanut shell 400 °C Cadmium (II) Washing, drying, and millingTreating with hydrated manganese oxide10 Non-specific outer-sphere surface complexation, andSpecific innersphere com-plexationWan et al. (2018)2437 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3mechanisms for removing inorganic and organic pollutants using various biochar-based materials.As demonstrated, the adsorption process is not confined to a single mechanism; rather, multiple mechanisms can occur concurrently and be complementary to one another (Zhou et al. 2019a). Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that the physicochemical properties of biochar-based mate-rials, such as specific surface area and oxygen-to-carbon ratio, play a critical role in the adsorption process. In gen-eral, specific surface area is critical for both inorganic and organic adsorption of pollutants, whereas a higher oxygen-to-carbon ratio favours inorganic adsorption due to the increased number of oxygen-containing functional groups and cation-exchange capacities (Jin et al. 2021). At the same time, higher aromaticity and hydrophobicity are associated with organic dye adsorption (Choudhary et al. 2020).Surface adsorption Chemical bonds are formed between the adsorbate and adsorbent surface in this mechanism as the adsorbate diffuses into the adsorbent's pores. Operationally, the pyrolysis temperature affects the volume of pores and surface area of the biochar (Ambaye et al. 2020b). Zhang et al. (2021b) investigated the process of cadmium adsorp-tion onto engineered biochar prepared by impregnating raw bamboo residues with potassium phosphate at temperatures ranging from 350 to 950 °C. The results indicated that the aromatization and graphitization degrees of the potassium phosphate-biochar increased as the temperature increased. Additionally, the surface area and phosphorus-containing functionalities increased initially. They then decreased, indi-cating that the pyrolysis temperature of 550 °C obtained the best pore structure and surface chemical properties, result-ing in optimal energy recovery and a maximum loading capacity of higher than 289.0 mg  g−1.Electrostatic interaction This is the most critical mecha-nism involving the attractive electrostatic interaction between the positively or negatively charged biochar and the oppositely charged adsorbate. The pH, ionizable species of pollutants, ionic strength, zeta potential measurement, and point of zero charge values all contribute to determining the biochar's ability to attract or expel contaminants (Li et al. 2019d). For example, the initial pH values greatly impact the adsorptive performance of the developed microwave carbon dioxide-activated biochar and microwave steam-activated biochar. In the pH range of 3–7, the lower concentration of cations facilitated the binding of negatively charged Congo red dye molecules to the adsorbent surface. In contrast, anions in the alkaline environment competed with Congo red molecules, hindering  their adsorption onto the modi-fied-biochar  surfaces. Under acidic conditions, the Congo red removal percentages of 89% (Qmax = 91 mg   g−1) and 93% (Qmax = 136 mg   g−1) for microwave carbon dioxide-Different biomass-based feedstocks were studied against the targeted contaminants. Pre- or post-treatments were also investigated along with the temperatures at which the biochar was prepared. The maximum adsorption capacity in mg  g−1 and adsorption mechanism are providedTable 16  (continued)Raw feedstock Temperature Target contaminant Pre-treatment Post-treatment Maximum adsorp-tion capacity (mg  g−1)Adsorption mechanism ReferenceWillow wood 550 °C Nickel (II) Washing and drying Pristine 9.8 Surface complexation Wang et al. (2020b)Copper (II) 12.2Cadmium (II) 35.22438 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 17  Loading capacities of different biochar-based materials towards different organic pollutantsRaw feedstock Temperature Production pathway Target contaminant Maximum adsorp-tion capacity (mg  g−1)Adsorption mechanism ReferencesOrange peel waste 150–600 °C Microwave pyrolysis via carbon dioxide and steam activationCongo red 136.00 Electrostatic interaction Yek et al. (2020)Hickory chips 600 °C Pyrolysis followed by impregna-tion with iron (II, III) oxideMethylene blue 500.5 Electrostatic interaction and π–π interactionLi et al. (2020e)Switchgrass 900 °C Pyrolysis Orange G 38.2 Electrostatic interaction, and π–π interactionPark et al. (2019)Frass of mealworms 800 °C Pyrolysis Malachite green 1738.6 Electrostatic interaction, hydrogen bonding, and π–π interactionYang et al. (2019b)Corncob 400 °C Pyrolysis followed by impregna-tion with triethylenetetramine, and treatment with sulphuric acidSunset yellow 77.1 Electrostatic interaction Mahmoud et al. (2020)Macroalgae (Undaria pinnati-fida)800 °C Chemical functionalisation with potassium hydroxide followed by pyrolysisRhodamine B 533.8 Electrostatic interaction, hydro-gen bonding, van der Waals forces, and π–π interactionYao et al. (2020)Methylene blue 841.64Malachite green 4066.96Corn straw 500 °C Nitric acid treatment, sodium hydroxide activation, followed by pyrolysis iron (III) chloride modificationMalachite green 515.8 Electrostatic attraction Eltaweil et al. (2020)Swine manure and fly ash 700 °C Pretreatment of fly ash with sodium hydroxide, mix-ing with swine manure and pyrolysisMethylene blue 131.6 Electrostatic interaction, and π–π interactionWang et al. (2020c)Tapioca peel waste 800 °C Mixing of pyrolysed feedstock with thiourea and pyrolysisRhodamine B 33.1 Electrostatic interaction, and Hydrogen bondingVigneshwaran et al. (2021)Malachite Green 30.18Switchgrass 900 °C Pyrolysis Congo red 22.6 Electrostatic interaction, and π–π interactionPark et al. (2019)Wakame (macroalgae) 800 °C Chemical functionalisation with potassium hydroxide followed by pyrolysisMalachite green 4066.9 Electrostatic interaction, π–π stacking, hydrogen bonding, and van der Waals forceYao et al. (2020)Rice straw 500 °C Pyrolysis followed by wet attri-tionMethylene blue 90.91 Electrostatic interaction Abd-Elhamid et al. (2020)Crystal violet 44.64Corncob 400 °C Pyrolysis followed by partial oxidation and aminationCongo red 89.3 Chemisorption Faheem et al. (2019)Chicken manure 500 °C Pyrolysis Phenols 106.2 Electrostatic interaction, π–π interaction, and hydrogen bondingThang et al. (2019)2,4-dinitrophenol 148.12439 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Different biomass-based feedstocks were studied against the targeted contaminants. Pre- or post-treatments were also investigated along with the temperatures at which the biochar was prepared. The maximum adsorption capacity in mg  g−1 along with the adsorption mechanism are providedTable 17  (continued)Raw feedstock Temperature Production pathway Target contaminant Maximum adsorp-tion capacity (mg  g−1)Adsorption mechanism ReferencesAlfalfa 700 °C Pyrolysis followed by nitric acid treatment, acid pickling, and reheatingp-Nitrophenol 49.25 Hydrogen bonding, and π–π interactionChen et al. (2019)Malt bagasse 500–900 °C Pyrolysis followed by zinc chloride activation; pyrolysis followed by hydrochloric acid treatment2-chlorophenol 150.0 Electrostatic interaction Machado et al. (2020)Alfalfa 650 °C Pyrolysis Bisphenol A 63.0 π–π interaction, and hydropho-bic interactionChoi and Kan (2019)Rice husk 450 °C Pyrolysis followed by potassium hydroxide functionalisationPhenols 179.0 π–π interaction, and hydrogen bondingShen et al. (2020)Furniture waste 700 °C Pyrolysis followed by coating with fulvic acid4-chlorophenol 133.0 Hydrogen bonding, and π–π interactionWu and Chen (2019)Macroalgae 800 °C Pyrolysis followed by hydro-chloric acid treatmentPyrene 0.19 Hydrophobic interaction Qiao et al. (2018)Corn straw 500–800 °C Pyrolysis followed by mixing with potassium hydroxide, and then pyrolysisNaphthalene 450.4 π–π interaction, and pore filling Qu et al. (2021)Rice husk 500 °C Pyrolysis followed by iron (II) sulphate modificationPhenanthrene 97.6 π–π interaction, hydrophobic interactions, and pore fillingGuo et al. (2018a)Macroalgae 800 °C Zinc chloride and iron (III) chlo-ride modification, followed by pyrolysis, and hydrochloric acid treatmentNaphthalene 90.0 π–π interaction, partitioning effect, and pore fillingCheng et al. (2020b)Alfalfa 650 °C Pyrolysis Sulphamethoxazole 90.0 π–π interaction, and hydropho-bic interactionsChoi and Kan (2019)Rice straw 550 °C Pyrolysis followed by hydro-chloric acid treatmentBenzoic acid 7.97 π–π interaction, and van der Waals attractionsSingh et al. (2020)Microalgae 750 °C Pyrolysis Tetracycline 132.8 Hydrophobic interactions, and π–π interactionChoi et al. (2020)Grape pomace 350 °C Pyrolysis Cymoxanil pesticide 161.0 Hydrophilic interactions Yoon et al. (2021)Corn cob 600 °C Pyrolysis followed by hydrofluo-ric acid treatment2,4-dichlorophenoxy -aceti acid (2,4-D) herbicide34.4 Hydrogen bonding, pore filling, and π–π interactionBinh and Nguyen (2020)Lotus seedpod 500–650 °C Pyrolysis followed by potas-sium hydroxide activation and pyrolysis17β-estradiol hormone 183.6 π–π interaction, and electrostatic interactionLiu et al. (2020b)2440 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3activated biochar  and microwave steam-activated biochar, respectively, were achieved (Yek et al. 2020). Additionally, Igalavithana et  al. (2017) stated that electrostatic interac-tion was the primary mechanism governing the removal of potentially toxic metals via biochar.Van der Waals forces In this mechanism, the electronega-tive atoms (e.g. nitrogen, oxygen, and chlorine) found in the neutral molecules may attract the electron cloud via a cova-lent bond with a less electronegative neighbouring atom, thereby enhancing the molecule's dipolar nature (Roy et al. 2015). When the positive end of one molecule is aligned with the negative end of another, the partial positive (δ+) and negative (δ−) charges within the molecule are stimu-lated. Numerous factors affecting the structural composition of the biochar, the speciation of the adsorbate, and the sur -face properties of both biochar and adsorbate all contribute to the Van der Waals forces. Hydrogen bonding is a type of dipole–dipole interaction that occurs when an electron-egative atom interacts with a hydrogen atom connected to another electronegative atom. It is established through the allocation  of hydrogen atoms between  electronegative atoms (Choi et al. 2019). The strength of hydrogen bond-ing is determined by the atoms' electronegativity. Zhou et al. (2019a) demonstrated that hydrogen bonding is involved in the adsorption of ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin onto iron (II, III) oxide/graphene-modified citrus peel biochar. It was ascribed to the increased electronegativity of fluorine atoms in the structure of these molecules and the oxygen-contain-ing groups on the modified biochar surface.Ion exchange The ion exchange process  is defined as the reversible exchange of ions between biochar (an insoluble solid phase) and adsorbate (liquid phase). Inherently, bio-char's cation/anion exchange capacity refers to the total deposition of cations or anions on the biochar surface via the  displacing  of  corresponding amounts of other ions (exchangeable ions). This scenario is primarily based on the exchange of protons and ionised cations with dissolved salts on the surface of the biochar. Biochar's loading capac-ity is determined by its size and surface functional groups (Gurav et  al. 2021). Wu et  al.  demonstrated that magne-sium-coated coconut shell biochar significantly increased its adsorptive capacity for lead and cadmium ions by 20 and 30 times, respectively, when compared to pristine biochar. The recorded Qe values of the magnesium-coated biochar produced at 400 °C towards lead and cadmium ions were 49 and 59 times greater than those of pristine biochar pro-duced at the same pyrolysis temperature, respectively. This was primarily attributed to mechanisms of ion exchange and precipitation (Wu et al. 2021).Surface precipitation Surface precipitation occurs when insoluble mineral precipitates form on the surface of an adsorptive material, most notably biochar, which is com-posed of cellulose and hemicelluloses degraded at tem-peratures greater than 300 °C and has an alkaline property. Changes in the solution pH or other components (e.g. min-eral, enzymatic, and polymeric compounds) on the biochar surface can be used to simulate the reaction (Ambaye et al. 2020b). According to Puga et al. (2015), biochar produced from sugarcane and straw dust can enhance cadmium and zinc metal ion precipitation. However, the susceptibility of biochar surface precipitation may be largely dependent on the pyrolysis temperature, implying that additional research on optimising the pyrolysis temperature is strongly recom-mended. Zama et  al. (2022) enhanced the adsorption of arsenate ions using rice husk/aspen wood-based biochar by beneficially precipitating calcium/arsenic compounds. This was accomplished by precipitating arsenic in solution using calcium and then supplementing with unmodified biochar to increase the yield of the removal process. Notably, arse-nate concentration in the working solution was successfully reduced by 58.1%.Complexation This mechanism results in the formation of multi-atom structures when metal ligands interact with biochar to form complexes. The formation of complexes on the surface of the biochar demonstrates the adsorption of water pollutants as metal ions. A complex is a polyatomic molecule that contains one or more core atoms enveloped by ligands. Chemically, coordination reactions promote the formation of Lewis acid–base complexes, in which the metal ion acts as a Lewis acid (electron acceptor) and the ligands act as Lewis bases (electron donors) (Hosmane 2017). The oxygen-containing functional groups (e.g. carboxyl, lac-tonic, and phenolic) formed during low-temperature pyroly -sis enhance the binding of metal ions to biochar.Moreover, the presence of oxygen accelerates the oxida-tion of the biochar surface, which promotes enhanced metal complexation. Chelation is a specific aspect of complexation that involves the formation of complexes between organic molecules and a single central atom. It usually occurs when a metal ion reacts with a complexing agent, resulting in the formation of a ring structure. To summarise, surface com-plexation, including coordination and chelation, is viewed as a critical pathway for pollutant removal via biochar (Cui et al. 2016b; Ifthikar et al. 2017). Sun et al. concluded that the results of X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy confirmed the successful impregnation of manganese oxides on the potassium permanganate-treated magnetic biochar, which resulted in enhanced oxygen functional groups on its sur -face. This demonstrated that the adsorbed lead initially forms monodentate complexes (–O–Pb+), which are then tuned to form –O–Pb–OH in the solution, increasing the 2441 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3proportion of M–OH on the adsorbent surface (Sun et al. 2019).Partitioning Adsorption partitioning mechanisms are com-parable to those used in solvent extraction, which involves the separation of molecules based on their relative solubil-ity in two distinct immiscible liquids. As a result, nonpolar molecules, primarily organic pollutants, would dissolve in non-carbonised adsorbents or organic fractions of low-tem-perature pyrolysis biochar (Xiang et al. 2020b). The parti-tioning mechanism is dependent on the non-carbonised bio-char (amorphous or crystalline carbon) and the carbonised crystalline and graphene fractions of the biochar (Ambaye et al. 2020b). Xiang et al. (2020b) investigated the mecha-nisms governing the adsorption of five volatile organic com-pounds (acetone, cyclohexane, chloroform, ethanol, and toluene) onto hickory wood-based biochar. They concluded that the partitioning mechanism is critical for removing organic species when biochar with organic fractions is used.Pore‑filling Structurally, the high surface area associ-ated with the presence of mesopores and micropores may enhance the biochar's adsorptive performance. The phys-icochemical properties of biochar, as well as the polarity of organic pollutants, are critical for the adsorption process to be effective (Mandal et  al. 2017). According to the inter -national union of pure and applied chemistry's structural classification, the pore widths are classified as follows: less than 2 nm, 2–50 nm, and greater than 50 nm for micropo-res, mesopores, and macropores, respectively (Thommes et al. 2015). Binh and Nguyen investigated the adsorption mechanisms of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid onto corn cob biochar. They reported that the molecular dimensions of the target pollutant of 1.54 × 0.56 × 0.22 nm facilitated its adsorption onto the biochar through its narrow pores. This was strongly supported by the fact that the surface area and total pore volumes decreased significantly at the end of the adsorption process (Binh and Nguyen 2020).Hydrophobic interactions To reduce the overall interfacial area between hydrophobic pollutants and water molecules, it is necessary to emphasise non-covalent hydrophobic interactions. Nonpolar pollutants, distinctly, tend to aggre-gate in aqueous solutions. The hydrophobic interactions are triggered by a shift in the system's entropy. The ordered behaviour of water molecules is described by the system's reduced entropy. When nonpolar species enter the system, they impose a constraint on the water molecules, limiting their freedom of orientation. Therefore, the undesirable interaction is avoided by limiting the interaction of water molecules with the nonpolar surface, which results in the aggregation of nonpolar pollutants and hydrophobic bio-char in an aqueous medium (Roy et al. 2015). According to Zhou et al., the removal of ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin using iron(II, III) oxide/graphene-modified biochar was sig-nificantly attributed to hydrophobic interaction due to the increased hydrophobicity, which resulted in a strong inter -action between the adsorbate and adsorbent surface (Zhou et al. 2019a).π–π stacking and  other π‑interactions These are the non-covalent attractive interactions that exist between aromatic rings due to the presence of π-bonds. In contrast to con-ventionally formed covalent bonds, the π-orbitals of two molecules do not interact. One of two organic molecules is aromatic, which means it contains π-electrons and forms a complex with the other molecule via non-covalent bond-ing forces. Other non-covalent bonding forces that com-promise the π system include the n–π interaction, in which ions act as electron donors and the aromatic ring on the bio-char surface acts as an electron acceptor (Roy et al. 2015). According to Dong et al. (2018), the aromatic sheets found in magnetic biochar nanoparticles facilitated the removal of 17β-estradiol via π–π interactions. Additionally, during the elimination of ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin using the iron(II, III) oxide/graphene-modified biochar, the graphene on the modified biochar acted as π-electron donors, whereas the antibiotics acted as π-electron acceptors, due to the high propensity of the fluorine group of the benzene ring to pull electrons (Zhou et al. 2019a).SummaryA proposal has been established and shared as part of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which has been approved by all United Nations member states since 2015. Fundamentally, this agenda entails adopting the 17 sustain-able development goals by all countries in a comprehensive alliance. This alliance recognised that eliminating all depri-vations requires a coordinated approach that prioritises well-being, education, equity, and economic development—all while addressing environmental concerns regarding water, food, and energy (Srivastav and Kumar 2021; Wilson and Velis 2015). Access to clean water and sanitation became a stand-alone sustainable development goal in 2015. As such, the sixth sustainable development goal, to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation, has been identified as critical (Brookes and Carey 2015; Juárez 2020; Gwenzi et al. 2017). According to the United Nations report, even though universal access to safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene is critical for coronavirus disease 19 recovery, billions of people still lack access to safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene, and 129 countries are not on track to managing water resources sustainably by 2030 (UN 2020). Additionally, the world health organization estimates that approximately 829,000 people will die each year from 2442 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3diarrhoea due to unsafe drinking water, sanitation, and hand hygiene (WHO 2007, 2019).As previously stated, recycling biowaste into biochar is not only environmentally beneficial, but also aligns with the sustainable development goals in terms of waste manage-ment and thus contributes to the circular economy's advance-ment. Nonetheless, it is necessary to consider the potential health and environmental risks and restrictions associated with using these types of feedstocks. Despite the potential benefits of using biochar in various environmental appli-cations, concerns about the production and fate of biochar are gradually increasing. To begin with, biochar production systems have the potential to release greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, with associated negative ecological and health consequences if not designed properly (Kamali et al. 2021; Harsono et al. 2013). Pyrolysis also produces vola-tile organic compounds, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins, and furans. The utilisation of appropriate technol-ogy, as well as a thorough understanding of the dimensions involved in the production of biochar, are critical. Addition-ally, life cycle assessments must be conducted to determine the impact of each biochar system on the environment.Another aspect of the process is the fate of the spent bio-char, which is also questionable and could present problems if not managed properly. As previously demonstrated, pol-lutants can be adsorbed via chemi- or physisorption mecha-nisms, a potentially reversible process, particularly in physi -cal adsorption processes. This reversibility may result in the re-release of pollutants into the treated water. Incinerating the adsorbent is not an option as it would re-emit carbon and other toxic pollutants into the atmosphere, losing the carbon sequestration objective and necessitating additional mitigation measures and costs. In this case, recovering and regenerating the biochar adsorbent over multiple sorption cycles may be a better option (Krasucka et al. 2021). Numer -ous methods for sorbent regeneration have been reported, including using solvents, acids and bases, microwaves, and thermal regeneration (Kamali et al. 2021).However, for the purpose of carbon sequestration, any regeneration technique that subjects the biochar to further thermal degradation or oxidation cannot be utilised to pre-vent further release of the sequestered carbon. Furthermore, the safe disposal of spent biochar in dedicated landfills can serve as a long-term storage reservoir under certain con-ditions. Additionally, spent biochar involved in removing nutrition-based pollutants, such as ammonia and phospho-rus, can be safely applied to soils with further agronomic benefits.To conclude, our analysis shows that biochar represents an ultimate solution for several environmental concerns. The utilisation of biochar as an adsorbent in water remediation prior to long-term storage is a value maximisation strategy that can be technically viable and economically rewarding.Soil remediationA growing body of research indicates that biochar amend-ments may be a viable strategy for alleviating soil contami-nation by immobilising organic and inorganic contami-nants (Kumar et al. 2021b). Biochar's qualitative attributes as a soil amendment vary significantly depending on the feedstock sources and pyrolytic conversion parameters employed. Biochar materials derived from various sources have exhibited diverse capabilities and effectiveness for soil contaminant stabilisation. Soil organic pollutant remediation is often accomplished by sorption and degradation mecha-nisms, whereas inorganic pollutant remediation is accom-plished through sorption and chemical precipitation (Ji et al. 2022). Biochar produced at a high temperature and with a high sorption capacity is more appropriate for the rapid fixa-tion and adsorption of soil organic/inorganic contaminants. Low-temperature biochar with a suitable nutrient concentra-tion, on the other hand, is preferred by soil microorganisms because it accelerates the biodegradation process (Li et al. 2020a; Ni et al. 2020b).Remediating soil organic contaminantsOrganic soil pollutants include pesticides, herbicides, vari-ous antibiotics, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, polychlo-rinated dibenzofurans, polychlorinated dibenzodioxins, and polychlorinated biphenyls. These organic pollutants pose a serious threat to environmental preservation, as well as food and health safety. The addition of biochar to contaminated soils facilitates the direct interaction with organic pollut-ants and soil microorganisms (Guo et al. 2020b). Numerous studies have demonstrated the efficacy of biochar in stabi -lising organic pollutants via various physical and chemical sorption mechanisms. Electron donor and acceptor, pore filling, electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions, surface adsorption as well as hydrogen bonding all contribute to the biochar sorption capability of organic contaminants (Guo et al. 2020b; Abbas et al. 2018b). Khorram et al. explored the use of biochar to remediate soil that is contaminated with organic pesticide residues (Khorram et al. 2017). Lonap-pan et al. reported that biochar produced from pig manure (anionic biochar) is efficient for methylene blue sorption (cationic organic contamination) (Lonappan et al. 2016 ). According to Wathukarage et al., biochar produced from peanut shells is ideal for phosphate remediation due to its unique qualities of large surface area and microporosity (Wathukarage et al. 2019).In addition to sorption as a mechanism, biochar facilitates soil remediation via promoting enhanced microbial miner -alization of organic contaminants (Guo et al. 2020b). Under natural conditions, microorganisms take a long time to degrade organic pollutants (Ji et al. 2022). By incorporating 2443 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3biochar into the soil, the nutritional content is increased, which means that microbial activity enzymes (such as alka-line phosphatase, urease, and others) are increased (Pokharel et al. 2020b). This leads to a more diverse soil microbial community (Jaiswal et al. 2018).Zhang et al. ( 2018c ) stated that the composition of the microbial community most likely shifts from fewer fungi to a greater fungal-to-bacteria ratio and more gram-posi-tive bacteria than gram-negative bacteria. Furthermore, the researchers investigated soil polycyclic aromatic hydro-carbon biodegradation using biochar derived from various plant residue sources and observed that the biodegradation effects were similar in terms of enzyme activity and micro-bial community composition. Another study conducted by He et al. (2018b) reported that the addition of pig manure biochar to low organic matter soil enhanced the biodegrada-tion of phthalates by a greater percentage compared to bam-boo wood biochar. Generally, biochar with higher organic carbon content and a larger surface area is preferable for facilitating the biodegradation of persistent organic pollut-ants and pesticide residues in soil (Ji et al. 2022). Notably, biochar may contain active organic compounds, which are hazardous to soil microorganisms; also, the adsorption and hydrolysis of signalling molecules by biochar may alter the soil microbial community (Luo et al. 2022).Remediating soil inorganic contaminantsSoil contamination by heavy metals can occur from various sources, including mining activities, industrial effluents, and pesticides, and is regarded as one of the world's most press-ing issues (Cao et al. 2022 ; Qiu et al. 2020). Most heavy metals end up in either water or soil and are mostly non-bio-degradable, such as cadmium, chromium, lead, along with others (Liu et al. 2020c). Accumulation in the soil, water, as previously discussed, and plants, even at low concentrations, will not only harm humans and animals but will also damage the entire ecosystem (Wang et al. 2019c).Heavy metals in contaminated soils are typically treated using conventional methods that focus on their removal via washing, leaching, and extraction. Unlike these strategies, biochar amendments stabilise heavy metals in the soil by converting them to a form that is less soluble and bioaccessi-ble. The mechanisms that facilitate heavy metal stabilisation include electrostatic attraction, ion exchange, surface com-plexation as well as precipitation. When biochar is applied to contaminated soils, heavy metals are adsorbed onto the biochar surface and potentially are converted to hydroxide, phosphate and carbonate precipitates. As the fraction of heavy metals that is water-soluble is minimised, the poten-tial for uptake and bioaccumulation by soil microorganisms is significantly reduced (Guo et al. 2020b).Biochar application in soil contaminated with chromium (VI) has been investigated for many years, where several recent studies have demonstrated its remediation efficacy (Rajapaksha et al. 2018; Huang et al. 2020; Rafique et al. 2019; Khan et al. 2020b). Murad et al. recently reported that when they used biochar derived from peanut shell waste for the removal, immobilisation, and/or adsorption of chromium (VI) from soil and water, the removal/remediation effective-ness reached 79.35% (Murad et al. 2022). In a pot experi-ment, manganese oxide-modified biochar derived from corn straw was used to remediate soil for arsenic as well as plant roots for iron-manganese plaque through adsorption. The researchers reported that manganese oxide-modified biochar increased rice growth and decreased the arsenic concentra-tion in brown rice (Yu et al. 2017).It is important to note that biochar application may be ineffective for inorganic pollutant remediation in particular circumstances, such as when high acidity soil contains high amounts of various heavy metal pollutants. In such extreme cases, biochar treatment could be used in conjunction with, or subsequent to, another management strategy or approach to resolving the issue (Jiang et al. 2021). A combination of biochar produced from rice straw and lime was used to treat lead-contaminated soil; the mixture increased soil pH and decreased the lead content in brown rice (Li et al. 2018a). Penido et al. (2019) conducted a greenhouse experiment to determine the effect of adding sewage sludge to biochar derived from eucalyptus wood. The researchers reported a rise in soil pH and a decrease in lead, cadmium, and zinc bioavailability. Several recent investigations have indicated that a promising, highly reactive material known as nano-zero-valent iron may be exploited for inorganic pollution remediation (Diao et al. 2020a, b, 2021; Li et al. 2018b). Qian et al. (2022) combined the latter material with biochar for cadmium and lead immobilisation in contaminated soil, achieving a stabilisation efficiency of 80%.SummaryThis subsection provided a concise overview of the role of biochar in promoting soil remediation from organic and inor -ganic contaminants. Overall, our analysis demonstrated the efficacy of biochar in eliminating soil contaminants in most tests and research, the majority of which were conducted in the laboratory and a few in the field. Short- and long-term field tests should be conducted to gain a better under -standing. Models should be constructed to simulate field environmental conditions that vary according to soil type, soil texture, pH, salinity, and region climate, among other variables. Enhancing the performance of biochar in terms of sorption, surface area, and nutrient content by optimising  processing conditions as well as mixing it with other highly reactive materials, such as nanoscale compounds, could be 2444 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3a viable way of making it more effective, economical and environmentally friendly. There is still much to explore, and additional research is necessary, particularly when employ -ing biochar as a soil additive for contaminated soils.ConstructionIn response to the growing carbon footprint of the construc-tion industry, there is a greater demand for carbon dioxide emission management and reduction solutions. The con-struction industry's carbon dioxide emissions are influenced by several factors, including raw material processing, cement manufacturing, and, most importantly, construction. The potential use of biochar in construction, as shown in Fig.  8, has been thoroughly researched in the literature. Three pri-mary qualities have been identified as indicators of its viabil-ity for use in construction: its high chemical stability, low thermal conductivity, and low flammability.Chemical stability is critical to ensuring that no adverse chemical reactions occur when biochar is combined with other components in an asphalt or concrete mix. In general, concrete is known to be attacked by chemicals, reducing its durability. Additionally, asphalt degrades due to oxida-tion, which significantly impacts the longevity and stability of roads and pavements. Once combined with concrete or asphalt, biochar's chemical stability eliminates the potential of such damaging chemical reactions and provides long-term durability. Additionally, the low thermal conductivity increases the insulating capacity of buildings and structures. The primary component affecting this attribute is porosity, specifically the pore size distribution. Finally, reduced flam-mability is a critical safety requirement (Fawzy et al. 2021).Furthermore, biochar's water-holding capacity has been demonstrated to provide appropriate hydration in cementi-tious admixtures, hence enabling better internal curing. This enhances durability, shrinkage resistance, crack resistance, and improves mechanical characteristics. Additionally, the literature generally indicates structural improvements asso-ciated with the introduction of biochar into cement-based composites, including improvements in mechanical proper -ties such as compressive and flexural strength, ductility, as well as toughness (Fawzy et al. 2021). Biochar has shown great potential in being used in construction, offering sev -eral structural and functional advantages. Furthermore, the potential of incorporating biochar into the built environment for extended storage reinforces the notion that civil infra-structure serves as a solid carbon reservoir. This section will present the potential ways biochar can be utilised within construction.Biochar as an additive in cementitious materialsTo save natural resources and promote the use of waste or recycled materials in the construction industry, governments recently established standards for the use of sustainable materials. Construction and industrial activities are primary sources of greenhouse gas emissions globally. Numerous approaches have been proposed in the literature to address this issue, including the utilisation of biomass and waste Fig. 8  The various uses of biochar in construction as a potential car -bon sink application. Biochar can be used as a cementitious additive in concrete and mortar. The potential for incorporating biochar into bricks has been recognised due to biochar's thermal insulating quali-ties when used in place of sand and aggregates, as well as its direct impact on weight reduction and carbon dioxide removal from the atmosphere. Finally, biochar has the potential to be used as an asphalt additive and to be incorporated in biocomposites for enhanced insula-tion, moisture regulation and electromagnetic radiation protection2445 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3materials, as well as ashes (Mao et al. 2020), and the devel-opment of alkali-activated materials to replace Portland cement in concrete and mortars. Incorporating bio-based materials, in raw or ash forms, into the primary composition of mortar or concrete is currently limited to economically viable options.Numerous studies have highlighted concern about the adverse effect of biomass on the durability of cementi-tious materials due to the alkaline nature of such materials. Another drawback of using biomass in cement composites is that the presence of hemicellulose, a source of sugars such as glucose and fructose, retards cement hydration. Further -more, contaminants in rice husk ash have been identified as negative characteristics in mortar. Biochar is unique among bio-renewable resources in that it can address all of the chal -lenges mentioned above concurrently. Table  18 highlights the most significant findings from previous research on bio-char's use in building materials, particularly cement mortar and concrete.Impact on properties of fresh mixturesGupta et al. (2018a) reported that adding 8% biochar to cement mortar can result in an 11% reduction in flow rate (workability). This study indicated that adding a high dosage of biochar (5–8%), which is produced at high temperatures, results in a firmer mortar mix. Furthermore, according to Cuthbertson et al. ( 2019) as the biochar content increases, the amount of water required to keep cementitious materials workable should increase. When 1.5 grammes of biochar are mixed with 10 grammes of cement in a concrete mix, the water-to-cement ratio should be increased from 0.4 to 0.48 to provide free water. The water holding capacity of the added biochar tends to retain higher amounts of free water in its porous structure, which explains the higher reduction in flowability of mortar (Gupta et al. 2018b). Due to the low density and porous structure of biochar particles, it has been shown that the density of fresh mortar decreases as the biochar content increases. On the other hand, the air content of fresh mortar increases as the amount of biochar added increases (Gupta et al. 2018b).Several studies have been conducted on the effect of biochar on the rheological properties of cement mortar. Gupta et al. examined the early age characteristics of bio -char-cement composites. The authors investigated the yield stress and plastic viscosity of mortar at various times after mixing water. In comparison with plain mortar and mor -tars containing coarser biochar particles (particle sizes of 2–10 μm), the incorporation of ground biochar (particle sizes of 0.1–2 μm) facilitated cement paste application into formwork due to its decreased viscosity (Gupta and Kua 2019). Biochar particle size had an effect on the yield stress of cement mixes, with finer biochar grains exhibiting a lower value (Gupta and Kua 2019). At a concentration of up to 3% by weight, biochar affects the workability of fresh mixtures, as indicated by a decrease in flowability and an increase in yield stress and plastic viscosity of the fresh paste. Gupta and Kashani attribute this effect to biochar's angular shape, fine particle size, and water-absorbing capabilities (Gupta and Kashani 2021).Impact on transfer propertiesWater absorption is critical for the durability and long-term functioning of cementitious materials. The effect of add-ing biochar to cement composites, either as a filler or as a cement substitute, on the sorptivity of cement compos-ites has been extensively investigated in the literature. An increased void fraction in mortar results in an increase in capillary water absorption. Furthermore, increased capillary absorption results in the deterioration of the mortar/concrete structure (Akhtar and Sarmah 2018a) and/or the prolifera-tion of germs in the indoor environment (Gupta et al. 2018a). Furthermore, resistance to external fluid penetration into the mortar mix is critical for enhancing the material's longevity, as porous networks facilitate easy entry of corrosive chemi-cals into the structure when hydraulic pressure is applied.Gupta et al. investigated the effect of incorporating biochar produced at various temperatures on the capillary absorption and water penetration depth of mortar. The study was based on adding 1–8% (by weight) of biochar produced at 300 and 500 °C. The results indicate a reduction in water absorption, compared to the control, by approximately 33% by the addition of 1% of biochar produced at both tempera-tures, while a 2% dosage resulted in a reduction of 17 and 14% for the biochar produced at 300 and 500 °C, respec -tively. Higher doses resulted in increased water absorption rates for biochar produced at both temperatures. The find-ings indicate that a 1–2% dosage effectively reduces water absorption by mortar. This implies that using biochar-based mortar in construction can reduce water seepage via capil-lary absorption, thereby restricting mould and germ growth in the indoor environment (Gupta et al. 2018a). In terms of depth of water penetration, the results indicate a significant reduction compared to plain mortar under all scenarios, in terms of dosage and biochar production temperatures. How -ever, the highest reduction is observed at a dosage of 1%, where a reduction of approximately 65 and 61% is achieved for biochar produced at 300 and 500 °C, respectively (Gupta et al. 2018a).Impact on cement hydrationHydration is required for the microstructural development of cementitious materials. Hydration products include non-crystalline hydrated phases such as calcium-silicate 2446 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 18  Biochar as an additive in cementitious materials. Various feedstock materials along with the pyrolysis operating conditions are reportedFeedstock Pyrolysis conditions Biochar as Dosage Adopted tests in mortar Curing condition Main outcomes ReferencesMixture of woodchips of local forest900 °C Filler 1%, 2.5% Density, flexural and compressive test, fracture energyWater-cured Slight reduction in compressive strength with increasing biochar dosage, an increase in flexural strength and fracture energySirico et al. (2020)Poultry litter, rice husk, PPI sludge450, 500 °C , resi-dence time: 20 minCement replacement 0.1–1% Compressive, flexural, and splitting tensile tests, water absorption, Fourier transform infrared spec-troscopy, X-ray diffrac-tion, Scanning electron microscopeMoist curing Effective at an early age, strength devel-opment of concreteAkhtar and Sarmah (2018a)Sugarcane bagasse 200 °C , slow pyroly -sis, residence time: 2 hFiller 2, 4, 6% Apparent porosity, thermal conductivity, isothermal calorimetry, flexural test50% relative humidity Improvement of hydration, reduction in thermal conduc-tivity by 25% due to the addition of 4% biocharYang et al. (2019c)Softwood 700 °C Filler 0.8, 1% Flexural test, fracture energyWater-cured Promising improve-ment in strength and toughness of cement compositeCosentino et al. (2019)Dried distillers’ grain 500 and 600 °C Sand and aggregate replacement1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 12, 15%Density, compressive test, sound absorption test, thermal conductivityAmbient condition 10 and 15% of bio-char leads to better sound absorption properties, at 2% biochar addition, thermal conductiv -ity shows the high-est reductionCuthbertson et al. (2019)Rice husk 450 °C Cement replacement 0.1–0.75% Compressive and splitting tensile tests, water absorp-tion, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, Scan-ning electron microscopeFog-cured 17% reduction in water absorption, enhancement of mechanical proper -ties at optimum biochar dosageAkhtar and Sarmah (2018a)Wheat straw 650 °C, residence time: 4 hMagnesium oxide and ammonium dihy -drogen phosphate replacement0.5, 1, 1.5% Compressive and flexural tests, water absorption, porosity, water resistance, X-ray diffraction, the scanning electron micro-scope, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopyRoom temperature Development of mechanical proper -ties with increasing biochar contentAhmad et al. (2020)2447 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Table 18  (continued)Feedstock Pyrolysis conditions Biochar as Dosage Adopted tests in mortar Curing condition Main outcomes ReferencesGrey borgotaro 700 °C Filler, Cement replacement0.8, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5%Mechanical tests, fracture energyWater-cured Increase in flexural strength and frac-ture energy in the optimum biochar percentageRestuccia et al. (2020)Masson pine wood 500, 700 °C heating rate of 10 °C  min−1Filler 1, 2, 5% Isothermal calorimetry, X-ray diffraction, thermal gravimetric analy -sis, scanning electron microscope, compressive strengthAir-cured, carbon dioxide-curedThe incorporation of biochar as a green additive promotes the generation of hydration products, carbon dioxide cur -ing of newly formed blocks accelerate cement hydration and carbonationWang et al. (2020d)Wood sawdust 500 °C Filler 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2%Rheology, isothermal calo-rimetry, mechanical tests, water absorptionMoist cured, Air-curedEffect of coarse bio-char on the rheology of mortar, reduction in capillary absorp-tion in air-cured condition accel-eration of cement hydration,Gupta and Kua (2019)Wood sawdust 300 and 500 °C Filler 1, 2, 5, 8% Mechanical tests, density, porosity, drying shrink -age, water absorption, scanning electron micro-scopeFog-cured Improvement of early age compressive strength, 1% biochar shows comparable drying shrinkageDixit et al. (2019)Wood sawdust 300 and 500 °C Filler 2% Internal RH, thermal gravi-metric analysis, mechani-cal tests, water sorptiv -ity, scanning electron microscopeFog-cured, Air-cured A higher degree of hydration by adding pre-soaked biochar, Improvement of strength and water tightnessPaiva et al. (2019)Corn stover 550 °C, a heating rate of 15 °C  min−1, resi-dence time:25 mFiller 2, 4, 6, 8% Compressive test, X-ray diffraction, Fourier trans-form infrared spectros-copy, scanning electron microscopeCarbon dioxide curing Increase in carbon dioxide uptake due to the addition of biocharPraneeth et al. (2020)Wood sawdust 500 °C heating rate of 10 °C  min−1Cement replacement 2, 5, 8% thermal gravimetric analy -sis, isothermal calorim-etry, compressiveAmbient curing Increase in hydration degree and the heat of hydration due to biochar additionDixit et al. (2019)2448 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Table 18  (continued)Feedstock Pyrolysis conditions Biochar as Dosage Adopted tests in mortar Curing condition Main outcomes ReferencesRice husk 500 °C, a heating rate of 1 °C  s−1Silica fume replace-ment40% Rheology, isothermal calo-rimetry, density, compres-sive test, capillary testWater-cured at 26 °C Plastic viscosity and yield stress of cenosphere mortar increased, accel-eration of cement hydration, 15–20% higher compressive strength retention by mortar exposed to 450 °CGupta and Kua (2020)Coconut shell 500 °C, a heating rate of 10 °C  min−1Cement replacement 5% Rheology, isothermal calorimetry, thermal gravimetric analysis, density, compressive test, capillary test, shrinkageBiochar with higher permeability and lower pore tortuos-ity resulted in a higher reduction in autogenous shrink -ageGupta et al. (2020a)Sorghum, manure, cotton stalk, algae210–600 °C Filler 2% Compressive test, isother -mal calorimetry, density, water absorptionFog-cured The high carbon content of biochar contributes to the strength develop-ment, reduction in capillary absorption, improvement of long-term strength by32%Gupta et al. (2020b)The biochar is used as a filler and a replacement for cement, sand and aggregates, silica fume, and others. The adopted tests are provided along with the curing conditions and the main out-comes. The bold percentage represents the optimum biochar dosage2449 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3hydrate gel, hydrated crystalline phases such as calcium hydroxide, and non-hydrated crystalline phases with varying chemistry, microstructure, and size scale. Calcium-silicate hydrate deposits around cement grains and binds mortar components together to form a stiff structure, whereas cal-cium hydroxide forms in water-filled pores. Depending on the type and characteristics of the biochar, the creation of a dense structure, due to a filler effect, during the initial stage of development inside the cement product may hinder chemical enhancement, thereby prohibiting the formation of calcium-silicate hydrate and delaying pozzolanic activity (Akhtar and Sarmah 2018b).Gupta and Kashani reported that at 3- and 7-day ages, adding 3% biochar (produced from waste peanut shell at 500 °C) to cement paste and cement-fly ash paste enhanced the degree of hydration by 15–23%. Increased hydration resulted in the formation of a solid network and a reduction in capillary porosity, both of which contributed to the devel-opment of compressive strength in biochar-cement mor -tar when compared to control (Gupta and Kashani 2021). Moreover, Gupta and Kua demonstrated that biochar could have a significant effect on the hydration of cement paste. The cumulative heat of hydration (a proxy for the degree of hydration in cement mixtures) was higher in cement pastes containing 1% mixed wood biochar than in plain paste. Coarser biochar generated more heat in this experiment than finely ground biochar (Gupta and Kua 2019).Furthermore, Gupta et al. (2020a) reported increases in cumulative hydration heat of 10, 9.1, and 9% after 7 days of hydration, when 5% cement was replaced with processed coconut shell biochar, commercial biochar, and wood waste biochar, respectively. Additionally, regardless of the type of feedstock used, adding biochar to the cement paste accel-erated hydration and increased the rate of hydration heat. In another study, replacing cement with 5% coarse bio-char (250–500 μm) from mixed wood sawdust resulted in a 30% increase in heat of hydration after 96 h (Dixit et al. 2019). Gupta et al. (2021), in another study, reported that after 7 days, adding 1–2% biochar derived from rice husk and mixed wood generated a cumulative heat of hydration comparable to that of the control cement mortar. In another investigation, cumulative hydration heat was reduced by 15% in cement pastes incorporating 2% dairy manure biochar. This was attributed to the high level of ash (84%), which contains a substantial quantity of calcium, phosphate, and magnesium and hence retards hydration. Furthermore, the addition of sorghum biochar to cement paste was associated with a lower heat of hydration and a slower hydration reac-tion in the same study (Gupta et al. 2020b).Impact on mechanical propertiesThe characteristics of biochar incorporated into cementi-tious materials influence their mechanical properties. When employed as a filler in cement mortar, independent of the water-cement ratio, biochar has a greater effect on the early strength of the mortar. Biochar particles are frequently smaller in size than both the average grain size of cement and the macropores found in most cement pastes. Fine par -ticles have a critical role in filling macropores in mortar, resulting in increased compactness and stress transfer per -formance under load. Additionally, incorporating biochar into mixtures with a lower water-to-cement ratio results in a stiffer texture and affects the compactness of the mortar (Gupta et al. 2018a).The optimal biochar content for increasing the hardened density of cement mortar was determined to be between 1–2% (Gupta et al. 2018a). Increased biochar dosages may result in the deterioration of the system performance. It was reported that mortar containing 5–8% biochar has a consid-erably reduced hardened density (Gupta et al. 2018a). The ductility of concrete containing more than 10% biochar was shown to be similarly influenced (Cuthbertson et al. 2019). Several studies have demonstrated that adding up to 2% biochar increases compressive strength. However, in some cases, there was a slight reduction in compressive strength at 7 and 28 days of age (Gupta et al. 2018a, b). Additionally, it has been established that using 2% wood sawdust biochar as a filler increases the splitting tensile strength of cement composites (Gupta and Kua 2018).Cosentino et al. (2019) reported that specimens contain-ing 0.8 and 1% biochar created from softwood biomass at 800 °C had greater flexural strength and fracture energy val-ues than specimens made entirely with cement. Moreover, Suarez-Riera et al. (2020) studied the effect of biochar on the strength of cement paste during the mixing process. In the first set, biochar was immediately added to the water and superplasticizer mixture and then mixed with the dry ingredients, whereas, in the second set, all dry cement and biochar particles were combined prior to adding the water and superplasticizer. In the former state, adding 2% biochar enhanced flexural strength by 15%, whereas combining it with the second approach resulted in an 8% decrease in strength.Impact on insulating propertiesWhen biochar was utilised in place of sand and coarse par -ticles in concrete, the noise reduction coefficient of the con -crete containing 10 and 15% biochar by weight was 0.45, exceeding the threshold for materials with good sound absorption capabilities. Furthermore, in comparison with ordinary concrete, the application of biochar improved the 2450 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3thermal insulating properties of the concrete. Thermal con-ductivity was significantly decreased at 1 and 2% biochar by weight, with temperature-dependent conductivities ranging from 0.208 to 0.230 W   mK−1 and 0.192–0.197 W   mK−1, respectively. While this does not classify the material as a building insulating material, it does improve the thermal insulating properties of the concrete and, as a result, the energy efficiency of structures made of the material. Accord-ing to the results of numerous concrete tests, it appears that including modest quantities of biochar into concrete may result in ideal material properties. The concrete's heat con-ductivity was improved between 1 and 2% by weight, and water usage was kept to a minimum in this range (Cuthbert-son et al. 2019).Biochar in asphaltThe application of biochar in asphalt has been investigated within the literature. The addition of straw-derived biochar significantly improved the high-temperature performance of asphalt. Biochar performed comparably to commercial coal in this investigation, and it was determined that 6% of straw-derived biochar powder should be used in asphalt applications (Gan and Zhang 2021).Additionally, biochar was investigated as an asphalt binder. Kumar et al. (2018) examined the feasibility of using biochar generated from mesua ferrea seed cover waste as a binder modifier/extender for asphalt. Five different biochar contents (0, 5, 10, 15, and 20% by weight of binder) and two distinct sources of basic asphalt binders were used to make bio-asphalt binders. The flow behaviour, permanent defor -mation, fatigue, and ageing properties of biochar-modified binders were evaluated and compared to those of control binders, without biochar.The addition of biochar enhanced the viscosity of asphalt binders and exhibited Newtonian behaviour up to 20 wt.% biochar concentration used in the study. The use of biochar enhanced the permanent deformation resistance of the super -pave rutting parameter (G */sin) at high service temperatures. The addition of biochar reduced the sensitivity of bio-asphalt binders to ageing as measured by the rheological ageing index. Multiple stress creep and recovery experiments demonstrated that biochar reduced accumulated strain and non-recoverable compliance, thereby enhancing the rutting resistance of the binders. The stress sensitivity of all bind-ers was determined to be within the specified limits, and it decreased as biochar concentration increased. The study's findings indicated that biochar generated using mesua ferrea seed cover waste could be a viable material for enhancing the performance of asphalt binders (Kumar et al. 2018).Zhang et al. (2018d) investigated the use of biochar as a potential modifier for enhancing the rheological properties of asphalt binders. In this experiment, biochar with particle sizes ranging from 75 to 150 μm and less than 75 μm was used, with concentrations of 2, 4, and 8%. For comparison, flake graphite with a particle size distribution of less than 75 μm and a content of 4% was utilised as a modifier. The binder performance was evaluated using scanning electron microscopy, rotating viscosity testing, dynamic shear rheom-eter, and bending beam rheometer tests.The results indicated that adding both biochar and graph-ite can improve the rotational viscosity of asphalt binders. The viscosities of the biochar-modified binders with smaller particles were greater than those with larger particles. All binders met the rotating viscosity criteria of less than or equal to 3000 mPas at 135 °C. Furthermore, the porous structure and rough surface of the biochar resulted in a greater adhesive interaction in the binder as compared to flake graphite. Consequently, the biochar-modified asphalt outperformed the graphite-modified asphalt in terms of high-temperature rutting resistance and anti-ageing quali-ties. Moreover, the asphalt binder modified with smaller particles and a larger biochar concentration showed obvious improvements. Finally, it was observed that binders modified with biochar particles of less than 75 μm and 4% concen-tration offer enhanced low-temperature crack resistance, as compared to other modified binders (Zhang et al. 2018d).Zhou et al. (2020) evaluated the chemical structural prop-erties and phase separation of biochar-modified bio-asphalt using molecular dynamics and numerical modelling. They reported that biochar improved the high-temperature perfor -mance of the bio-asphalt system and enhanced its oxidation resistance. Furthermore, biochar facilitated enhanced resist-ance to ageing. On the other hand, biochar did not affect the low-temperature hardening of the chemical composition in the bio-asphalt system.Biochar in biocomposite materialsNumerous biocomposite materials using biochar have been developed to perform a variety of purposes in construction, including insulation, moisture regulation, and protection from electromagnetic radiation. The unique physicochemi-cal characteristics of biochar enable these materials to have enhanced functionality.InsulationJeon et al. (2019) developed a latent heat storage biocompos-ite using coconut oil as phase change material and pinecone, pine sawdust, and paper mill sludge biochar. The biocom-posite was developed using a novel vacuum impregnation method. Differential scanning calorimetry, scanning elec -tron microscopy, thermogravimetric analysis, Fourier trans-form infrared spectroscopy, specific heat, and bulk density 2451 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3measurements were used to determine the thermophysical characteristics of the material.The differential scanning calorimetry analysis revealed that pine sawdust biochar pyrolysed at 550 °C and sub-sequently impregnated with coconut oil had the highest latent heat storage capacity of 74.6 J   g−1. The latent heat performance of pinecone biochar pyrolysed at 200 °C, pinecone biochar pyrolysed at 500 °C, and steam-activated pine sawdust biochar pyrolysed at 550 °C was also remark -able, achieving values of 61.9, 62.6, and 62.8 J   g−1, respec-tively. The thermogravimetric analysis demonstrated that all developed biocomposites exhibited enhanced thermal stability, whereas the Fourier transform infrared spectros-copy examination revealed no chemical interaction between the biochar and coconut oil. The thermal conductivities of the biocomposites were found to range between 0.030 and 0.098 W   mK−1. Four out of seven samples were found to have excellent heat-insulating properties, achieving a second or higher grade in the heat insulating material examination. The bulk density analysis yielded minimum values ranging from 0.43 to 0.91 g   cm−3 (Jeon et al. 2019).After evaluating all of the data, the biocomposite was determined to be suitable for use as a latent heat storage insulating material. The core properties of the biochar served as a phase change support material, allowing the biocompos-ite to store more phase change material per mass unit. When utilised as an insulation material, the low thermal conductiv -ity of the developed biocomposite appeared to be sufficient to provide adequate insulation. Additionally, the latent heat storage biocomposite was made entirely using eco-friendly materials, which is more sustainable (Jeon et al. 2019).Moisture regulationWood is a robust and sustainable material used in construc-tion, facilitating good thermal insulation properties. How -ever, structural faults may develop due to decay from mois-ture, reducing dimensional stability. Furthermore, when the moisture level is constantly high, this might lead to mould development, posing a health risk to occupiers. Jeon et al. investigated the development of a wood-based biocomposite incorporating biochar to compensate for the shortcomings of wood in terms of moisture stability. The wood-derived bio-composite samples were prepared by a hot-pressing process, and their hygrothermal performance was evaluated using experimental methods and simulations (Jeon et al. 2021).The thermal conductivity of the biocomposite with a 10% biochar concentration was found to be 7.98% lower than that without the biochar. The high porosity and microstructure of biochar contributed to its low heat conductivity. The bending strength of the wood-derived biocomposite decreased with increasing biochar concentration, which was attributed to the pore structure of the biochar and the poor compatibility of the biochar surface with chemical functional groups and adhesives. However, the samples with the lowest bending strength of 7.67 Mpa could be considered strong, and the samples could be used as finishing materials. When biochar was applied, the water vapour resistance factor increased, indicating that the hydrophobic functional groups on the surface of the biochar had a greater effect on moisture per -meability than the pore structure. According to the findings, the wood-derived biocomposite is appropriate for use as a building material due to its high insulating properties, ability to manage moisture, as well as resilience to climate change (owing to the carbon storage capacity of its raw materials). Given that biochar properties can be controlled, such as pore characteristics and surface functional groups, by varying the raw materials and pyrolysis conditions, it is necessary to investigate which characteristics have a greater impact on the moisture control of wood using different biochar types, in addition to the one used in this study (Jeon et al. 2021).Electromagnetic radiation protectionDue to the rapid advancement of wireless communication and electronic technology in the modern period, electro-magnetic radiation and electromagnetic interference have posed a serious threat to the proper operation of precision electronic devices and to human health. A simple prepara-tion process was used by Yin et al. (2020b) to create a hybrid material using sorghum straw biochar with iron and nickel metals. Due to its high performance, this eco-friendly hybrid biochar can be employed as a new low-frequency microwave absorbent. Owing to the combined effect of interface polari-sation, dipole polarisation, natural resonance, eddy current and conduction loss, multi-reflection and scattering, and better impedance matching, the as-prepared hybrid mate-rial exhibited outstanding low-frequency microwave absorp-tion capabilities. At a preparation temperature of 600 °C, the highest reduction level attained was 44.18 decibels at 0.49 gigahertz, with an effective absorption bandwidth of 0.17–0.99 gigahertz for 2 mm and a board effective absorp-tion bandwidth of 0.53–2.49 gigahertz for 1 mm thickness. Meanwhile, the highest reduction level at a preparation tem-perature of 700 °C was 46.36 decibels at 0.81 gigahertz with an effective absorption bandwidth of 0.49–1.43 gigahertz and a board effective absorption bandwidth of 0.89–2.81 gigahertz for the same thicknesses, respectively. This study offered a novel way for developing an eco-friendly material for high-efficiency, low-frequency microwave absorption using sorghum straw biochar.Furthermore, a fluorine-doped biochar-based carbon material was synthesised and employed by Sutton et al. as an additive in producing several materials for electromag -netic radiation protection. Overall, by developing biochar with high electron density and stability, the material could 2452 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3absorb and buffer ionising radiation in excess of and/or equal to industry standards. The carbon–fluorine bond strength, as well as fluorine intercalation within the pores, demonstrated that the developed biochar is an appropriate option for radi-ation protection. As a result, biochar was able to replace several radiation-protective materials while also providing environmental benefits (Sutton et al. 2021).Moreover, bamboo-derived biochar that had been pyro -lysed at 1100 °C was used by Li et al (2018c) as a conductive filler in an ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene/linear low-density polyethylene composite. Biochar with a dense nano-porous structure, a large specific surface area, and high electrical conductivity was produced through high-temper -ature pyrolysis. The addition of that biochar significantly improved the electrical conductivity and electromagnetic interference shielding efficacy of the composites. The com-posites with 80% biochar had a conductivity of 107.6 S   m−1 and a very high electromagnetic interference shielding effi-ciency of 48.7 decibels at 1500 megahertz, both of which are among the highest values ever reported for conductive poly -mer composites fabricated by melt processing and exceed the electrical conductivity and electromagnetic interference shielding requirements of many applications.Biochar in smart bricksBecause bricks are a common building material and a criti-cal component of the construction process, it is required to replace conventional bricks with a more sustainable option. The potential for incorporating biochar into bricks has been recognised due to the thermal insulating qualities of biochar when used in place of sand and aggregates in concrete, as well as its direct impact on weight reduction and carbon dioxide removal from the atmosphere, which have been highlighted in previous research. As a result, the production of sustainable bricks, also referred to as smart bricks, which include biochar, can reduce permanent loads on buildings and consequently reduce the amount of steel reinforcement and concrete used in facilities, in addition to its thermal insulation, which results in energy savings through reduced use of air conditioners and heaters. Above all, its potential for carbon sequestration significantly con-tributes to climate change.SummaryThis section demonstrated the potential utilisation of biochar within construction. To conclude, our analysis showed that biochar could be utilised as a cementitious additive, con -ferring various structural and functional advantages. Addi-tionally, the inclusion of biochar into asphalt and the manu-facture of sustainable bricks exhibited several advantages. Furthermore, the literature has demonstrated the potential for biochar to be included in biocomposites for improved insulation, electromagnetic radiation protection, and mois-ture control, all of which have demonstrated positive results.Biochar's long-term storage capacity in civil infrastruc-ture makes it a viable carbon reservoir. However, it is critical to keep in mind that the usable life of civil structures varies significantly. When such structures reach the end of their useful lives, they can be recycled further, or the material can be disposed of sustainably in landfills for long-term storage. Civil infrastructure, in general, is a robust carbon reservoir, and additional research is needed to optimise and enhance the potential use of biochar for value maximisation in the building sector.Energy storageThe long-term storage of pyrogenic carbon within advanced bio-based materials has been suggested by Schmidt et al. (2019a) as a valid strategy, as long as the material is not subjected to thermal degradation or oxidisation throughout its lifetime, once recycled or at termination. The utilisation of biochar in energy storage applications can present a very interesting route to creating considerable value while serv -ing the ultimate purpose of prolonged carbon sequestration. However, synthesising biochar-based materials appropriate for energy storage applications involves advanced knowl-edge and engineering. The deployment of various biochar functionalisation approaches necessitates a careful exami-nation of each technique to ensure that the desired mate-rial features, as well as carbon stability, are achieved while minimising the environmental impact of the process in order to enhance the carbon removal potential of this approach. This section will further explore the literature on synthesis -ing advanced biochar-based material for supercapacitor and battery applications.Biochar‑based materials for supercapacitorsGlobally, there has been a rise in research into sustainable and renewable energy sources during the last few years. The advantages of supercapacitors, among other energy storage technologies, have been thoroughly investigated in the lit-erature, including their rapid charge–discharge capabilities, high power density, and cycle stability. Compared to other carbon compounds, biochar materials have attracted consid-erable interest due to their low cost, efficiency, and active energy storage properties (Fig.  9).Li et al. synthesised biochar with a hierarchical porous structure from the flowers of Cotinus coggygria as a super -capacitor using a new composite activator. The produced biochar had a surface area of 959.04   cm2  g−1. After 36,000 cycles, the biochar demonstrated a reversible capacitance of 2453 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3279.9 F   g−1 (6 M potassium hydroxide) through a current density of 5 A   g−1. In the same context, the biochar dem-onstrated an exceptional specific capacitance of 413.5 F   g−1 in 1 M sulphuric acid. The composite activator’s synergism contributed to its enhanced specific capacitance and stable cycling performance. Several advantages of adopting hierar -chical porous biochar include ease of preparation, low cost, and superior performance (Li et al. 2020f).Biochar, produced by pyrolysing biomass at low tem-peratures, has a low conductivity and is therefore rarely employed in energy storage. Zhang et al. (2019b) developed a compact biochar material based on sodium lignosulfonate, graphene oxide, and p-phenylenediamine through evapora-tion and pyrolysis at low temperatures, which was enriched with dinitrogen and exhibited high conductance. Sodium lignosulfonate was used as the carbon source for biochar, while the reduced graphene oxide provided excellent con-ductivity. P-phenylenediamine was then mixed with gra-phene oxide and sodium lignosulfonate to produce compact char via polymerisation through the process of evaporation and pyrolysis.Nitrogen content (14.3%), density (1.98 g   cm−3), yield (69.5 weight %), and conductivity (0.078 S.  m−1) of the prepared biochar were all high. The biochar single-elec-trode had an excellent volumetric and gravimetric specific capacitance of 950 F   cm−3 and 480 F   g−1 at 1 A   g−1 in 1 M sulphuric acid, respectively, with excellent cycle stability. Furthermore, the constructed symmetric supercapacitor exhibited a remarkable energy density in 1 M sulphuric acid, both volumetrically (26.5 Wh   L−1) and gravimetri-cally (13.4 Wh   k−1). With a 1 M sodium sulphate elec-trolyte, significantly improved performance was observed (21.6 Wh   kg−1 and 42.8 Wh   L−1). This novel concept dem-onstrates a feasible method for producing materials com-bined with biochar for use as supercapacitor electrodes in sustainable energy systems (Zhang et al. 2019b).Jiang et al. employed pyrolysis and subsequent potas-sium hydroxide/potassium nitrate activation to produce porous carbon-based materials derived from cotton, keep-ing the fundamental hollow-tubular fibre structure. The carbon compound developed had a suitable specific capaci-tance of ~ 2.8 ×  102 and ~ 2.1 ×  102 F  g−1 at 1 and 100 A   g−1, respectively. A long cycle life is exhibited, which may be ascribed to its active porous structure and unique hollow tubular form. (Jiang et al. 2019).Biochar is well recognised as a multifunctional material capable of generating high-performance carbon compounds for energy and environmental applications. Gao et al. (2020) used the inner shell of Torreya grandis, a typical lignocel-lulosic biomass waste, to fabricate hierarchically porous car -bon composites via a planned pyrolysis/activation approach. This work presents an effective and economically viable pro-cess for carbonising/activating waste biomass in order to create hierarchical porous biochar for sustainable energy Fig. 9  Biochar derived from biomass is illustrated schematically for use in energy storage applications. Biochar is first produced from a variety of biomass feedstocks, including fruit peel, eggshells, seeds, dedicated crops, and biomass waste precursors. Subsequently, various modification treatments are carried out to synthesise a biochar-based material with a high surface area, high porosity, improved electrical conductivity, high energy content, and a large number of abundant functional groups. This biochar-based material has the potential to be used in energy storage applications such as batteries and supercapaci-tors due to its low cost, efficiency, and active energy storage proper -ties2454 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3storage and environmental applications. The synthesised biochar exhibited exceptional energy storage performance in 1 M sodium sulphate, with high capacitance and stability (3% loss after 5000 cycles).Cai et al. (2017) employed the stems of Moringa oleifera  to synthesise carbon nanosheets in a hierarchically porous form via a one-step pyrolysis procedure. The synthesised material exhibited a unique porous nanosheet structure, a large pore volume of 23 ×  10–1  cm3  g−1, a high surface area of approximately 2.3 ×  103  m2  g−1, sufficient porosity, and doped heteroatoms (N and O). It had a 283 F   g−1 spe-cific capacitance at 0.5 A   g−1 and a 28% capacitance loss at 50 A   g−1. Additionally, the three-electrode arrangement displayed superior long-term cycle stability.Sun et al. (2018) created nitrogen-doped biochar materi-als with high concentrations of mesopores obtained from waste corn silks. It had a pore volume and a surface area of approximately 2.0   cm3  g−1 and 1764.8   m2  g−1, respectively. The examined electrode maintained an exceptional capaci-tance of 3.5 ×  102 F  g−1 during 5 ×  103 cycles, reflecting a loss of only 0.8% of its original value. Despite this, the biochar electrode acquired a high energy density of 17.8 Wh   kg−1 and an outstanding capacitance of 2.6 ×  102 F  g−1 by using an upgraded electrolyte composed of alizarin red solution sulphuric acid and bromoamine acid.Tea leaves were employed as a carbon source in pyroly -sis with potassium hydroxide activators to produce func-tionalised carbon. At 1200 °C, the functionalised carbon's pore volume and surface area were 0.512   cm3  g−1 and 911.92   m2  g−1, respectively. Asymmetric supercapacitors made of this material exhibited a specific capacitance of 167 F   g−1 at a current density of 1 A   g−1 (Song et al. 2019a).Wu et al. (2019b) proposed employing potassium hydrox-ide activation to synthesise hierarchical microrods of albi-zia flower-derived biochar. After activation with electrolyte (potassium hydroxide) at 1173 K, the self-nitrogen-doped microrod biochar-based material demonstrated a distinctive porous structure. The material showed a total pore capacity of 1.47   cm3  g−1 and an exceptional surface area of approxi-mately 2.8 ×  103  m2  g−1. As a result of these improvements, a 390 F   g−1 specific capacitance and exceptional cycle sta-bility were achieved, with a 3% loss after 5000 cycles at 1 A  g−1. Similarly, the 1 M sodium sulphate electrolyte had a power density of 42 Wk   g−1 and a specific energy density of 26.3 Whk   g−1.According to Lu et al. (2020), a biochar material derived from lotus leaves has been developed with exceptional elec-trochemical properties. They first pyrolysed the lotus leaves at 700 °C in a tube furnace to obtain biochar. Furthermore, the resulting biochar was activated at 700 °C using potas-sium hydroxide (1:3, wt). The pore volume of the biochar-based material produced was 1.37   cm3  g−1, and the specific surface area was 2350.8   m2  g−1. An exceptional capacitance of 478 F   g−1 was attained when employed as a supercapaci -tor electrode. Additionally, after 5 ×  103 cycles in a two-elec-trode arrangement, the created supercapacitor lost around 10.9% of its initial capacitance.Zhou et al. ( 2018b ) used bristlegrass seeds to make a hon -eycomb-like biochar material. Due to its hierarchical pore interconnected three-dimensional honeycomb-like structure, multi-heteroatom doping, and large surface area, the built electrode exhibited a high capacitance of 3.9 ×  102 F  g−1. Additionally, it possessed a high-rate capability, a long-life cycle, and a loss of around 2.8% of its initial value over 1 ×  104 cycles. Additionally, the supercapacitor electrode displayed a 20.15 Wh k   g−1 energy density at a 500 Wk   g−1 power density in sodium sulphate (1 M).Su et al. (2018) synthesised an advanced biochar-based material from mango stone biowaste using a two-step chemi-cal etching process. The material's energy density and spe-cific capacitances were 27.6 Whk   g−1 and 358.8 F   g−1, respectively, at 0.5 A   g−1.Li et al. (2020g) developed a biochar material from flaxseed waste. Pyrolysis of the precursor was carried out in an inert environment at temperatures ranging from 600 to 800 °C. Furthermore, the material was mixed (1:4) with potassium hydroxide and activated at 700 °C in an argon atmosphere. The resulting material had a large surface area of 3.2 ×  103  m2  g−1. Capacitance of 398 and 369 F   g−1 were obtained in sulphuric acid and potassium hydroxide electrolytes, respectively, and retained 98.1% of their capaci-tance after 10,000 cycles (Li et al. 2020g).In another study, Zhao et al. (2019) used a potassium hydroxide activation approach to directly pyrolyse litchi shells in order to create porous carbon nanosheets/parti-cle composites. Additionally, by balancing the potassium hydroxide activating agent to the litchi shells at a ratio of 3:1, a large surface area of around 1.1  ×  103  m2  g−1 was obtained, and the material exhibited an extraordinary capaci-tance of 2.20 ×  102 F  g−1.In a one-step pyrolysis process, another study used chest-nut shells and melamine as an activating agent to produce porous carbon materials doped with heteroatoms. Porous carbon derived from chestnut shells had a specific surface area of 691   m2  g−1 and contained several heteroatoms such as nitrogen, oxygen, and sulphur. Carbon electrodes, as pre -pared, had a 402.8 F   g−1 specific capacitance at 0.5 A   g−1 in potassium hydroxide electrolyte (Wan et al. 2019a).Potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate are increasingly being employed in research to develop materi-als for electrode applications. Mu et al. synthesised hierar -chical porous carbons from bean curd and potassium car -bonate. After a single activation stage, the resulting specific surface area was 2514   m2  g−1. At 0.1 A   g−1, this material displayed a specific capacitance of 486 F   g−1 in 1 M sul-phuric acid and ~ 400 F   g−1 in 6 M potassium hydroxide in a 2455 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3three-electrode configuration. Additionally, a ~ 12 Wh   kg−1 energy density was reported when a sulphuric acid solu-tion (1 M) was used as the electrolyte, as well as a continu-ous capacitance efficiency of up to 1 ×  104 cycles (Mu et al. 2019).Additionally, Karnan et al. synthesised porous carbon from corncob using a one-step potassium hydroxide acti-vation method, providing a specific surface area of 800  m2  g−1. Due to the porous and disordered structure of the derived material, it displayed a high capacitance of approx-imately 3.9 ×  102 F  g−1, a high energy density of around 25 Wh   kg−1, and a high power density of approximately 175 kW   kg−1 (Karnan et al. 2017).Yuan et al. (2019) synthesised hybrid carbon materials from chitosan by using potassium bicarbonate. The gelatin-modified chitosan-derived biochar exhibited a distinctive tangerine pith-like structure with a specific surface area of 927.2   m2  g−1. The as-prepared biochar electrode material showed a high specific capacitance of 330 F   g−1 and a loss of around 10% of its initial capacitance after 1 ×  104 cycles at 10 A   g−1 in a 6 M potassium hydroxide electrolyte. With a power density of 900 Wk   g−1 and 34 Wh   kg−1 energy den-sity, chitosan-derived biochar material outperformed most commercial devices.Vijayakumar et al. (2019) reported using cotton-based biochar materials as supercapacitor electrodes. Waste cotton was pyrolysed at approximately 873 K in an inert atmos-phere and then activated at 1123 K in a nitrogen environment using potassium hydroxide at a mass ratio of 1:3. At a volt-age window of ~ 3.2 V, the synthetic biochar had a specific surface area of 1.9  ×  103  m2  g−1 and volumetric capacitance of 0.87 × 102 F   cm−3 at a current density of 1 A   g−1. Addi-tionally, the synthetic electrode exhibited a higher volumet-ric energy density of 31.0 Wh   L−1, resulting in a greater active mass loading and a superior voltage window. Fur -thermore, the cotton-based biochar materials demonstrated exceptional durability after 1.5 ×  104 cycles at a current den-sity of 4 A   g−1.Zhu et  al. (2019) proposed nitrogen-doped biochar materials via pyrolysis and subsequent activation utilising egg white. The honeycomb structure of the biochar mate -rial generated from egg white resulted in a surface area of 2.9 ×  103  m2  g−1. The structure of connected micro-and mesopores enhanced electrolyte ion diffusion channels and increased the area of contact between the electrolyte and the electrode. Additionally, a three-electrode configuration exhibited a capacitance of approximately 3.4 ×  102 F  g−1 and an 8.3% capacitance loss after 10,000 cycles.Zhang et al. (2019c) synthesised biochar material from wheat bran that had been activated with sodium hydrox-ide. When the mass rate of the used precursor and sodium hydroxide was 1:4, the produced biochar-based  mate-rial with hierarchical micropores and mesopores had a high surface area of 2.6  ×  103  m2  g−1. Additionally, it pos -sessed an extraordinary capacitance of 2.9 ×  102 F  g−1 and a capacitance loss of 6% over 5 ×  104 cycles when used as a supercapacitor electrode.Khan et al. ( 2020c ) produced a biochar-based mate -rial with a hierarchically porous structure from a naturally withering rose petal using potassium hydroxide/potassium nitrate activation. The resulting carbon material has a large surface area of approximately 2 × 103  m2  g−1, excellent con-ductivity, and a hierarchical pore structure. It performed exceptionally, with a capacitance of 0.35 × 103 F   g−1 at a current density of 1 A   g−1, a rate ability of 0.17 × 103 F   g−1 at a current density of 150 A   g−1, and a 4.6% loss of original capacitance after 140,000 cycles at 100 A   g−1.Zheng et al. (2017) employed water hyacinth to syn-thesise porous hierarchical carbon as a biomass precursor through pyrolysis and subsequent activation. It showed a large surface area of 2.3 × 103   m2  g−1 and a hierarchical structure. When utilised as a supercapacitor electrode, it exhibited an astounding capacitance of 3.4 × 102 F   g−1, lead-ing to enhanced energy and power densities.Several investigations have demonstrated that adding heteroatoms to the surface of carbon materials increases the capacitance of supercapacitors. For instance, adding nitrogen, phosphorus, and oxygen atoms to the surface may enhance the interaction of ions with the electrode leads, hence increasing the wettability of the electrolyte solution. Due to the presence of functional groups of oxygen and nitrogen atoms on the surface, the porous carbonaceous material exhibits acidic or alkaline properties, which pro-mote electrode–electrolyte interactions. Wan et al. (2019a, 2019b) demonstrated the production of melamine-activated biochar containing nitrogen, oxygen, and sulphur heter -oatoms in a hierarchical structure from chestnut shells. The biochar materials were created using an adequate graphiti-sation degree and a heteroatom content of 3.79% nitrogen, 13.35% oxygen, and 0.52% sulphur. In a three-electrode arrangement, the synthesised biochar had a large surface area and a high specific capacitance of around 6.9 ×  102  m2  g−1 and 4 ×  103 F  g−1, respectively. It also demonstrated good stability, with a 3.4% of capacitance over several 20,000 cycles.Wang et al. (2020e) developed biochar materials pro-duced from durian shells and doped with phosphorus, oxy -gen, and nitrogen atoms. The biochar material exhibited a limited surface area, a pore structure dominated by micropo-res, and abundant heteroatoms. The resulting composite per -formed effectively as an electrode in a supercapacitor, with a capacity of 1.8 ×  102 F  g−1 at a current density of 0.5 A   g−1. It demonstrated cycle stability, with only a 12% loss after 10,000 cycles. Furthermore, in sulphuric acid and potassium iodide aqueous electrolyte solutions, the studied biochar had a capacitance of 5.6 ×  102 F  g−1.2456 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Liu et al. developed nitrogen, oxygen, and sulphur co-doped biochar material using kraft lignin as a precursor for use in supercapacitors that did not require an activation pro-cess. The preparation method was simple, cost-effective, and environmentally friendly. In addition to their hierarchically porous structures, the kraft lignin-based biochar exhibited a notable surface area of 1.3 ×  103  m2  g−1. The biochar elec-trode produced showed exceptional specific capacitance of approximately 2.4 ×  102 F  g−1 at 0.2 A   g−1, good conduc-tivity, 18.2% capacitance loss of its original capacitance at 40.0 A   g−1, and 91.6% cycling stability over 10,000 cycles. In an aqueous electrolyte, the examined superca-pacitor had an energy density of 0.67 ×  102 Wh   kg−1 and a remarkable power density of 1.80 kW   kg−1. It was also kept at 0.32 ×  102 Wh  kg−1 at an ultrahigh power density of 0.4 ×  102 kW   kg−1 (Liu et al. 2019c; Liu et al. 2019d).Fu-Qiang et al. (2018) proposed a one-step approach for synthesising nitrogen-doped cotton as an environmentally friendly carbon source. The 750 °C biochar had a large sur -face area of 0.48 ×  103  m2  g−1 and a significant nitrogen con-centration of 6.80%. Despite having a lower specific surface area than earlier materials, this material achieved a maxi-mum capacitance of around 2.5 ×  102 F  g−1 in a 1 M sul-phuric acid electrolyte and lost approximately 6% of its original capacitance after 1 ×  104 cycles at a current density of 15 A   g−1.Another approach is to dope polymeric compounds on porous carbon surfaces. Polyaniline is a polymer molecule that can be used to increase pseudo-capacitance. These materials have attracted much interest due to their avail-ability, ease of processing, as well as chemical and environ-mental stability.Lyu et al. (2018b) examined composites made from yeast-derived nitrogen-doped carbon and polyaniline. The porous nature of biomass-based carbon materials and their large surface area provide active sites for polyaniline, which may help alleviate the pseudo-capacitance loss. The exam-ined composite had a remarkable specific capacitance of 0.5 ×  103 F  g−1 at a current density of 1 A   g−1 and a high-rate capability. Meanwhile, the composite symmetric super -capacitor device demonstrated an excellent capacitance of 0.1 ×  103 F  g−1 at a current density of 1 A   g−1 and 4.6% loss of original capacitance after 0.5 ×  104 cycles. Supercapacitor electrodes based on biochar derived from biomass and its composites are presented in Tables  19 and 20, respectively. Biochar‑based materials for batteriesLithium-ion batteries are the most widely used in energy storage due to their high working voltage, exceptional energy density, and compact size. Significant attempts have been made to develop low-cost, environmentally friendly carbo-naceous materials with improved charge storage capacity. Biochar derived from biomass has recently attracted consid-erable interest as anodes for lithium-ion batteries due to their large surface area, porous nature, and potential for lithium-ion storage.Zhang et al. (2018f) synthesised nitrogen-doped carbon with a porous structure using soybeans as a carbon and nitro-gen source. The resulting carbon honeycomb-like structure featured a connected porous network with a significant sur -face area of 0.109 ×  104  m2  g−1 and a range of pore sizes (meso- and macropores). After multiple cycles, the carbon produced from soybeans exhibited reversible capacities of 0.275–0.31 ×  103 mAh   g−1.Murali et al. (2019) utilised a microwave-based conver -sion technique for synthesising a hierarchically porous struc-tured carbon material derived from peanut shells. A mate-rial with a high specific surface area of 0.2099 ×  104  m2  g−1 was produced. At a current rate of 0.1 C, the examined anode exhibited an exceptional specific capacity of 0.142 ×  104 mAh   g−1, which was attributed to the large sur -face area and the presence of unstructured monolayer gra-phene forms in the synthesised material.Domestic food waste, specifically cooked rice, was employed to produce microporous and heteroatom-doped carbon using pyrolysis and subsequent activation. Cooked rice-derived biochar was produced at various temperatures, and the effect on electrochemical performance was inves-tigated by using it as a lithium-ion battery material. The produced anodes had a remarkable specific capacitance of 0.1 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at 100 mA   g−1 after 100 cycles (Packi -yalakshmi et al. 2019).Prasanna et al. developed a novel method for enclosing milled silicon particles in nitrogen-doped carbon to mini -mise major volume changes in silicon during lithium interca-lation and to increase its electrical conductivity. As a carbon source, chitosan was employed, which is the only naturally known alkaline polysaccharide biomaterial  containing nitrogen. The researchers utilised a conventional hydrother -mal process followed by pyrolysis. The silicon and nitro-gen modified electrode outperformed milled silicon in terms of electrochemical performance, with a discharge capacity of 0.940 ×  103 mAh   g−1 and a columbic efficiency of 97% over 50 cycles. After 50 cycles, the nitrogen modified electrode outperformed conventional graphite electrodes in discharge capacity and columbic efficiency, with a discharge capacity of 0.49 ×  103 mAh   g−1 and a columbic efficiency of 99.8% (Prasanna et al. 2019).Several studies have recommended biomass-derived car -bon as an electrode material for lithium-ion batteries due to its simple ion movement, high conductivity, and ability to buffer volume changes throughout the electrochemical pro-cess. Meanwhile, a better understanding of biochars' physi-cal characteristics and electrochemical activity is necessary 2457 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3to enhance their performance in lithium-ion battery applica-tions (Qi et al. 2017).Zhang et al. developed a high-performance carbon syn-thesis method using pinecones as a promising biomass source. Pinecone-derived hard carbon exhibited a specific capacity of 0.334 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 30 mA   g−1 over 120 cycles (Zhang et al. 2017a).Additionally, Damodar et al. demonstrated that hard carbon could be formed by pyrolysing palmyra fruit palms at temperatures ranging from 500 to 900 °C. In terms of electrochemical performance, hard carbon treated at 700 °C outperformed soft carbon, exhibiting a reversible capacity of 0.3970 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 30 mA   g−1. Due to their excellent microstructural characteristics and Table 19  Supercapacitor electrodes produced using synthesised biochar derived from various biomass materialsThe type of activation method along with the biomass feedstock are reported. Furthermore, the electrolyte used and measurement conditions, along with the obtained specific capacitance and surface area, are providedType of activation Type of biomass Electrolyte Conditions of measurements (A  g−1)Specific capacitance (F  g−1)Surface area  (m2  g−1)ReferencePyrolysis Tea leaves Potassium hydroxide 1 167 911.92 Song et al. (2019a)Potassium hydrox-ide/PyrolysisCoffee ground 1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide0.5 404 – Choi et al. (2018)Potassium hydrox-ideHyacinth Sulphuric acid 0.5 344.9 2276 Zheng et al. (2017)Potassium hydrox-ideGarlic skin Potassium hydroxide 0.5 427 2818 Zhang et al. (2018e)Potassium hydrox-ideLitchi shell Potassium hydroxide 0.1 222 1122.6 Zhao et al. (2019)Zinc chloride/ potassium hydroxideMango stone – 0.5 358.8 1497.8 Su et al. (2018)Pyrolysis Moringa leaves Potassium hydroxide 50 234 1327 Peng et al. (2018b)Pyrolysis/ Mela-mineChestnut shell Potassium hydroxide 0.5 402.8 961 Wan et al. (2019a)Potassium carbon-ate solution/ hydrothermalWalnut shell Potassium hydroxide/PVA 0.5 255 62 Xu et al. (2017)Potassium hydrox-ideCrab shell and rice husk6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 474 3557 Peng et al. (2019)Potassium hydrox-ideSisal 6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 415 2889 Liu et al. (2019d)Potassium hydrox-ide/potassium nitrateRose flower 6 M potassium hydroxide 1 350 1980 Khan et al. (2020c)Potassium hydrox-idePoplar anthers 6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 361.5 3639 Song et al. (2018)Potassium hydrox-ideShaddock endothe-lium1 M 1-Butyl-3-methylimi-dazolium tetrafluoroborate  (BMIMBF4/AN)0.2 550 1265 Yang et al. (2019d)Potassium hydrox-ideRice husk 6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 315 3263 Luo et al. (2019)Potassium hydrox-ideCastor shell 6 M potassium hydroxide 1 365 1527 Okonkwo et al. (2020)Hydrated potas-sium oxalateCornstalk 1 M sodium sulphate 0.5 461 2054 Li et al. (2020h)Sodium hydroxide Cellulose 6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 288 1588 Song et al. (2019b)Potassium hydrox-ideCottonseed husk 6 M potassium hydroxide 0.5 1694.1 1694.1 Chen et al. (2018c)Potassium hydrox-ideCotton stalk 1 M sodium sulphate 0.2 254 1964.46 Tian et al. (2017)2458 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3high interlayer spacing, carbon layers performed better elec-trochemically in battery applications (Damodar et al. 2019). Wang et al. ( 2019f ) created hard carbons using caltrop shells in a simple pyrolysis technique. With a reversible capacity of 285.2 mAh   g−1 at a current rate of 0.1 C, the studied carbon produced at 1300 °C exhibited a significant sodium-storage capacity.Romero-Cano et al. (2019) demonstrated how to extract hard carbons from grapefruit peels and how to use them in sodium-ion batteries. After pyrolysis at low temperatures, Table 20  Composite supercapacitor electrodes based on biochar derived from biomassThe composite materials and underlying biomass feedstocks utilised are reported. Furthermore, the operating conditions, such as the current density (A  g−1), capacitance (F  g−1) and the percentage stability, are presentedComposite materi-alsBiomass material Current density (A  g−1)Number of cycles Capaci-tance (F  g−1)Stability (%) Electrolyte used ReferencesHierarchically porous carbon/nitrogenHouttuynia 1 10,000 473.5 95.74 6 M potassium hydroxideShang et al. (2020)Nanofibers/nickel–cobalt oxidesTypha domingensis 1 5000 142 92.1 6 M potassium hydroxideGolmohammadi and Amiri (2020)Porous carbon/phosphorusElaeocarpus tec-torius0.2 1000 385 96 1 M sulphuric acid Nirosha et al. (2020)Porous carbon/ iron (III) oxideHemp straw 1 5000 256 77.71 6 M potassium hydroxideJiang et al. (2020)Carbon nanosheet/ nickel (II) hydroxidePeach gum 1 5000 350 83.9 6 M potassium hydroxideYu et al. (2019b)Activated mesoporous carbon/nitrogen/sulphurDatura metel seed pod1 3000 340 95.24 1 M sulphuric acid Raj et al. (2020)Hierarchically porous carbon/N/NCarboxymethyl cellulose ammo-nium1 10,000 465 86.3 3 M potassium hydroxideMeng et al. (2020)Activated carbon/ copper (II) chlorideLotus pollen 1 10,000 496 90.8 1 M sodium sul-phateWan et al. (2021)Hierarchically porous carbon/nitrogen/sulphurRape pollen 1 20,000 361 94.5 6 M potassium hydroxideWang et al. (2019d)Porous carbon/nitrogenGinkgo leaves 0.5 12,000 323.2 99 6 M potassium hydroxideWang et al. (2019e)Porous Carbon three-dimensional honeycomb structureCotton Seed Husk 0.5 5000 238 91 6 M potassium hydroxideChen et al. (2018c)Hierarchical porous carbon/copper(I) oxide/copper(II) oxideBamboo leaves 1 10,000 147 93 3 M potassium hydroxideWang et al. (2019e)Bio- carbon xero-gel/grapheneBamboo 1 10,000 189 100 6 M potassium hydroxideYang et al. (2018)Biochar/nitrogen Peanut shells 0.2 10,000 447 91.4 1 M sulphuric acid Gandla et al. (2021)Porous carbon hollow-sphere/nitrogen/sulphurPuffball spores 0.5 5000 285 80.3 2 M potassium hydroxideShang et al. (2021)Three-dimensional porous carbon/ manganese dioxideBanana peel 10 3000 170 98 1 M sodium sul-phateYang and Park (2018)2459 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3a decrease in sodium reversibility was detected, which was addressed using the functionalisation process. At a cur -rent density of 0.180 ×  103 mAh   g−1, grapefruit hard car -bons had a reversible capacity of 0.180 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current rate of 0.1 C. It was hypothesised that the function-alisation resulted in less reactive surface groups, allowing sodium to diffuse more easily.Yang et al. (2020) developed a functionalised hard car -bon synthesis technique using walnut shells. The carbons studied had a reversible capacity of 0.245  ×  103 mAh   g−1 at 100 mA   g−1. The increased electrochemical perfor -mance was attributed to the regulation of pore size, namely, mesopores with diameters ranging from 2 to 20 nm, which enabled a more favourable charge storage behaviour on the larger carbon surface.Gaddam et al. (2017) established a low-temperature pyrolysis procedure for producing hard carbon from spin-ifex nanocellulose. At a current density of 20 mA   g−1, the studied carbon exhibited a reversible capacity of 0.39 × 103 mAh   g−1. The improved electrochemical perfor -mance is attributed to the significant distance between the interlayers of spinifex-derived carbon, measuring 0.39 nm.Wang et al. (2017f) used dandelions as precursors in a simple pyrolysis process to create hard carbon. The carbons developed had a reversible capacity of 0.36 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at 50 mA   g−1. Additionally, when the pyrolysis tempera-ture increased, the average number of graphitic layers, their breadth and thickness, as well as their effect on electrochem-ical properties, increased.Fu et al. (2018b) utilised apple pomace to synthesise a networked carbon material that can be used as an anode in battery applications. When used as an anode material, the three-dimensional networked carbon with shell-like struc-ture and macropores with a notable diameter of 0.5 µm dem-onstrated a reversible capacity of 0.208 ×  103 mAh   g−1 over 2.0 ×  102 cycles.Wu et al. (2019c) synthesised hard carbons via lotus seedpod pyrolysis and then evaluated their performance as sodium-ion battery anodes. Hard carbon from lotus seed-pods outperformed the control sample at 1200 °C, with a reversible capacity of 0.329  ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 50 mA   g−1 and an acceptable rate capability of 0.78 ×  102 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 1 A   g−1.Zhang et al. (2018g) synthesised hard carbon in a hon-eycomb structure using pine pollen. The hard carbon exhib -ited a capacitance of 0.37 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current den-sity of 0.1 A   g−1 and a proper and reversible capacitance of 0.203 ×  103 mAh   g−1 after 200 cycles, which might be attributed to their 0.41 nm interlayer spacing, which reduces the resistance caused by the sodium ions.Xiang et al. (2017a) synthesised a hard carbon mate-rial using orange peels via pyrolysis and subsequent potas-sium hydroxide activation. After 100 cycles, the resulting carbon demonstrated acceptable electrochemical properties as anodes for battery applications, with reversible capaci-ties of ~0.3 ×  103 and ~0.16 mAh   g−1 at 0.5 and 1 A   g−1, respectively.Zhu et al. (2017) identified sorghum stalks as a biomass precursor to produce ecologically friendly and cost-effective hard carbon. After 50 cycles, the obtained samples demon-strated a superior reversible capacity of 0.245  ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 20 mA   g−1 and a rate capability of 0.172 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 200 mA   g−1.Typha, a perennial freshwater plant popularly referred to as cattail, was used by Shen et al. (2019) to aid in the synthe-sis of hard carbon. Typha hard carbon is produced in a simple method, utilising phosphoric acid activation and a low pyrol-ysis temperature of 500 °C. Numerous sodium ion sites are provided by the typha-derived hard carbon, which comprises small pores with nitrogen and oxygen functional groups. It exhibited a reversible capacity of 0.205 ×  103 mAh   g−1 after 400 cycles at a current density of 100 mA   g−1.Wang et al. (2018e) established a simple acid pretreat-ment followed by temperature-controlled pyrolysis to produce rice husk-derived hard carbon. The study exam-ined the effect of pyrolysis temperature on the electrochemi-cal properties of synthesised rice husk-derived hard carbon. The samples exhibited a significant reversible capacity of 0.372 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 25 mA   g−1.Additionally, Li et al. (2019e) reported the high-temper -ature pyrolysis and subsequent potassium hydroxide activa -tion processes that were used to produce oatmeal-derived hard carbon. Interlayers with a thickness of 0.39 nm were observed in the resulting material, as were graphitic micro-crystallites with a low specific surface area and mesoporous properties. At current density of 20 mA   g−1, the produced carbon had  a significant initial reversible capacity of 0.272 ×  103 mAh   g−1.Benítez et al. (2018) produced microporous carbon using almond shells as a biomass by-product via pyrolysis and a subsequent activation treatment. This carbon had a sig-nificant surface area of 0.97 ×  103  m2  g−1 and a specific capacitance of 0.91 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current density of 100 mA   g−1.Hencz et al. (2017) investigated the electrochemical performance of porous hierarchical carbon produced from seaweed biomass for use as a cathode material. The pro-duced samples had a surface area of 0.151 ×  104  m2  g−1 and a porous volume of 1.48   cm3  g−1, which were available in microporous, mesoporous, and macroporous forms. They determined a reversible capacity of 826.4 mAh   g−1 after 70 cycles as cathodes at a 0.2 C rate.Mangosteen peels were also used to create hierarchi-cally porous carbon with an exceptional surface area of 0.324 ×  104  m2  g−1 and a pore volume of 1.58   cm3  g−1; at current rates of 0.5 and 2 C, the produced carbon 2460 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3exhibited outstanding specific capacities of 0.87 and 0.569 ×  103 mAh   g−1, respectively (Xue et al. 2017).Yuan et al. (2017b) developed mesoporous lamellar car -bon from bagasse using a single-step high-temperature pyrol-ysis approach. With a surface area of 0.545  ×  103  m2  g−1, increased reversibility of ~ 0.49 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current rate of 1 C and significant rate capability.Additionally, Xiang et al. (2017b) used ferric chloride and zinc chloride as activators to synthesise a porous carbon doped with nitrogen and capable of forming nanosheets with an outstanding pore volume of 1.85   cm3  g−1 and a large specific surface area of 0.154 ×  104  m2  g−1. The prepared cathodes functioned effectively, reaching an initial specific capacitance of 0.876 ×  103 mAh   g−1 at a current rate of 0.5 C and was maintained at 0.594 ×  103 mAh   g−1 after 100 cycles. The increased electrochemical characteristics may be attributed to the large pore volume, hierarchically porous structure, and large surface area, all of which allow for more efficient ion and electron transport channels.Carbon derived from biomass could be used as an inter -layer in lithium-sulphur batteries to reduce polysulfide shut-tling. For example, virgin cellulose paper was used to pro-duce a carbon material with fewer functional groups. When the material was used as an interlayer, discharge capacities of 0.83 and 0.71 ×  103 mAh   g−1 were reached at current rates of 0.2 and 1 C, respectively. Electrochemical studies indicated that pyrolysed paper successfully collected and utilised dissolved polysulphides to enhance the performance of lithium-sulphur batteries (Li et al. 2017b).Furthermore, soybean shell was used as a dual source to synthesise carbon doped with a high concentration of nitro-gen (1.7%). After functionalisation, the resultant carbon had a notable surface area of 0.844 ×  103  m2  g−1, and when employed as an air cathode in a zinc-air battery, it exhibited a high current density of 0.111 ×  103 mA   cm2 and a high power density of 150 mW   cm2 (Zhao et al. 2018b).Zhang et al. (2017b) used banana peel to synthesise microporous carbon doped with nitrogen, providing an exceptional surface area of 0.1097 ×  104  m2  g−1. When used in zinc-air batteries, the produced carbon surpassed the plati-num loaded on carbon material in terms of discharge perfor -mance and power density. Table  21 shows the electrodes for batteries based on biochar derived from biomass.SummaryThis section extensively reviewed the literature on synthe-sising advanced biochar-based materials for energy storage applications. In conclusion, the manufacture of such mate-rial requires a sophisticated functionalisation procedure to provide the desired characteristics. Biochar was used as a precursor for subsequent functionalisation in almost all the studies presented. Biochar production as a first stage was commonly carried out via pyrolysis. This was usually fol-lowed by an activation or modification step carried out in the presence of various reagents.The main challenge observed along this path is the high temperatures employed throughout the process to attain the desired physical and chemical properties. In most of the investigations, the synthesised material exhibited an exceptional performance; however, the production pro-cess required operating temperatures of 700 °C and above, sometimes reaching 1200–1300 °C. Operating at such high temperatures is not advantageous from a carbon yield standpoint; however, temperatures around 700 °C facilitate excellent carbon stability. Therefore, it is important to assess the stable carbon yield achieved by the process. Addition-ally, the employment of various chemical reagents during the functionalisation stage adds an environmental burden that must be carefully evaluated. Life cycle analyses must be conducted to have a better understanding of the carbon sequestering potential of advanced biochar-based materials used in energy storage applications.Another aspect to consider is the fate of such material upon completing its useful life. As previously discussed, thermal regeneration is not applicable from a carbon removal perspective. Therefore, the ultimate end-of-life destination is the disposal of such materials in landfills for long-term storage.Despite the high energy requirements, chemicals utilised, and low carbon yield that might be associated with the syn-thesis of advanced biochar-based products, an apparent perceived benefit is the direct replacement of fossil-based carbon materials. In moving forward, it is recommended that research should focus on developing production processes that employ lower temperatures with a maxi-mum of 700–800 °C and use low-cost and environmentally friendly functionalisation techniques, in order to maximise the carbon removal potential of this application as well as provide an economically viable product that can be applied at a large scale. Finally, research should also focus on inves-tigating biomass sources that are abundantly available for large scale deployment.ConclusionGiven the current state of climate emergency, developing technically and commercially viable carbon removal sys-tems is critical. Biochar-based carbon removal systems have recently received much attention, which has prompted a greater understanding of the complete value chain. The final application of biochar is crucial to its validation as a carbon sink and should be carried out as sustainably as pos -sible while adhering to regulatory and technical standards in order for biochar technology to serve its carbon removal 2461 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3purpose. As previously stated, biochar can be used in various applications as long as it is not used for energy production. Furthermore, the biochar must not be subjected to thermal degradation or oxidisation during or after its service life. In this context, we thoroughly evaluated the key biochar-based carbon sink applications, including agronomy, animal farm-ing, anaerobic digestion, composting, environmental reme-diation, building materials, and energy storage. As demon-strated, exceptional value can be extracted in each of the applications discussed, in addition to the carbon removal potential achieved.Despite the numerous advantages and benefits associated with the production and application of biochar, it appears that large-scale biochar deployment faces certain challenges. Generally, the major challenges to the process are technical, economic, and socioeconomic in nature. In addition, gov -ernment bodies, particularly in developing countries, lack knowledge about the benefits and applications of biochar, resulting in a lack of supporting legislation and policies, as well as a lack of public awareness about the financial benefits of investing in biochar-related projects. Social acceptance of the biochar production process is also critical. Awareness of the available opportunities, including job creation, associ-ated with an investment in biochar production is vital. In developed countries, pyrolysis plants are well-established. However, poorly built plants in underdeveloped nations (e.g. stoves and drum kilns) may negatively impact greenhouse gas emissions and the release of highly toxic compounds. Furthermore, additional costs and energy are required for feedstock pre-treatment/drying, which adds to the existing constraints.In addition to the challenges outlined above, biochar pro-duction in developing countries has additional challenges, such as advancing technical competency and knowledge at both the individual and institutional levels. Furthermore, there is a need to address some misconceptions concern-ing biomass utilisation as a feedstock. Fears about the use of biochar, as well as the consequences on the competition Table 21  Electrodes for batteries based on biochar derived from biomassDifferent types of biomass feedstocks were used and the operating conditions along with the measurements are reported. The obtained specific capacities in mAh  g−1 and the surface area in  m2  g−1 are presentedTreatment type Type of biomass Conditions and measurementsSpecific capacity (mAh  g−1)Surface area  (m2  g−1)ReferencePyrolysis, activation Marine 0.1 mA  g−1640 535–1488 Guo et al. (2018b)Potassium hydroxide/pyrolysis Pinecone 30 mA  g−1334 239 Zhang et al. (2017a)Pyrolysis Soybean 2/4 C 310/275 1089.8 Zhang et al. (2018f)Potassium hydroxide Cooked rice 100 mA  g−11000 1899 Packiyalakshmi et al. (2019)Microwave Peanut shell 0.05 C 680 525 Murali et al. (2019)Pyrolysis and phosphoric acid activa-tionAlmond shell 100 mA  g−1915 967 Benítez et al. (2018)Pyrolysis Seaweed 0.2 C 826.4 1510.71 Hencz et al. (2017)Curing and annealing Prawn shell 100 mA  g−11735 – Lian et al. (2018)Pyrolysis Bagasse 1 C 494 545 Yuan et al. (2017b)Pyrolysis/ potassium hydroxide activa-tionMangosteen 0.5/2 C 870/569.2 3244 Xue et al. (2017)Potassium hydroxide/pre-pyrolysis Crab shell 0.1 C 971.3 1298.2 Shao et al. (2017)Pyrolysis Caltrop shell 0.1 C 285.2 9.58 Wang et al. (2019f)Pyrolysis Cellulose 0.2 C 830 – Li et al. (2017b)Phosphoric acid/pyrolysis Typha 100 mA  g−1204.8 559.73 Shen et al. (2019)Pyrolysis Rice husk 25 mA  g−1372 0.27 Wang et al. (2018e)Pyrolysis Grapefruit peel 0.1 C 180 10.9 Romero-Cano et al. (2019)Pyrolysis Cherry petal 20 mA  g−1300.2 1.86 Zhu et al. (2018)Pyrolysis Argan shell 25 mA  g−1300 380 Dahbi et al. (2017)Pyrolysis Spinifex 20 mA  g−1386 154 Gaddam et al. (2017)Pyrolysis Dandelion 50 mA  g−1361 9.9 Wang et al. (2017f)Pyrolysis Lotus seedpod 50 mA  g−1328.8 751–108 Wu et al. (2019c)Pyrolysis Pine pollen 0.1 A  g−1370 171.54 Zhang et al. (2018g)Potassium hydroxide/pyrolysis Orange peel 0.5/1 A  g−1301/156 638 Xiang et al. (2017a)Pyrolysis Sorghum stalk 20/200 mA  g−1245/172 234.55 Zhu et al. (2017)2462 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3for labour, land, and food crops, are another impediment in Sub-Saharan Africa (Gwenzi et al. 2015). Such challenges could be addressed by raising public awareness of biochar and its benefits at the community and governmental levels.Moreover, global standardisation of biochar production is required in terms of gaseous emissions, stability, and large-scale applications. As the biochar industry advances, there is a rising demand for universal standards to govern biochar production and ensure its quality. There are now two recognised standards: the European biochar certificate (also referred to as EBC) and the international biochar ini-tiative (referred to as IBI). While the primary objective of developing these standards is to improve the quality control and assurance of the emerging biochar industry, and while several nations have aligned their biochar industries to these standards, they remain a voluntary option for producers. As a result, new legislation is currently required. However, the emerging carbon removal economy is already integrating such standards within market participation requirements. Furthermore, these voluntary standards will highly influ-ence market regulations and dynamics moving forward.As demonstrated, the use of pristine biochar in various applications is viable; however, to significantly improve the performance of the biochar, further functionalisation and engineering techniques may be necessary for certain appli-cations. This usually requires further physical and chemical treatments, which need to be carefully examined for each process. The impact of such treatments on carbon stability as well as the environment should be thoroughly assessed. Furthermore, it is also important to consult the certifica-tion bodies in order to ensure that any modification methods employed are in line with certification requirements. Finally, detailed life cycle assessments (cradle to grave) of biochar systems must be performed for a wide range of feedstocks and production processes in order to determine the true potential for carbon removal depending on the carbon sink application for which the biochar is optimised.Acknowledgement  The authors wish to acknowledge the support of The Bryden Centre project (Project ID VA5048). The Bryden Centre project is supported by the European Union’s INTERREG VA Pro-gramme, managed by the Special EU Programmes Body (SEUPB). Disclaimer: The views and opinions expressed in this review do not necessarily reflect those of the European Commission or the Special EU Programmes Body (SEUPB).Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attri-bution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adapta-tion, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article's Creative Commons licence, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article's Creative Commons licence and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http:// creat iveco mmons. org/ licen ses/ by/4. 0/.ReferencesAbakari G et al (2020) The use of biochar in the production of tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus ) in a biofloc technology system—BFT. Aquacult Eng 91:102123. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. aquae ng.  2020. 102123Abbas A et al (2017a) Organoclay-based nanoparticles from mont-morillonite and natural clay deposits: synthesis, characteristics, and application for MTBE removal. Appl Clay Sci 142:21–29. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. clay. 2016. 11. 028Abbas A et al (2017b) Effect of biochar-amended urea on nitrogen economy of soil for improving the growth and yield of wheat (Triticum Aestivum L.) under field condition. J Plant Nutr 40:2303–2311. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 01904 167. 2016. 12677 46Abbas T et al (2018a) Biochar application increased the growth and yield and reduced cadmium in drought stressed wheat grown in an aged contaminated soil. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 148:825–833. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecoenv. 2017. 11. 063Abbas Z et al (2018b) A critical review of mechanisms involved in the adsorption of organic and inorganic contaminants through bio-char. Arab J Geosci. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s12517- 018- 3790-1Abdel Maksoud MIA et al (2020) Insight on water remediation applica-tion using magnetic nanomaterials and biosorbents. Coord Chem Rev 403:213096. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ccr. 2019. 213096Abd-Elhamid AI et al (2020) Enhanced removal of cationic dye by eco-friendly activated biochar derived from rice straw. Appl Water Sci 10:1–11. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s13201- 019- 1128-0Abdel-Tawwab M et al (2019) Fish response to hypoxia stress: growth, physiological, and immunological biomarkers. Fish Physiol Bio-chem 45:997–1013. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10695- 019- 00614-9Adekiya AO et al (2020) Biochar, poultry manure and NPK fertilizer: sole and combine application effects on soil properties and ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe) performance in a tropical Alfisol. Open Agric 5:30–39. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1515/ opag- 2020- 0004Agegnehu G et al (2015) Biochar and biochar-compost as soil amend-ments: effects on peanut yield, soil properties and greenhouse gas emissions in tropical North Queensland, Australia. Agric Ecosyst Environ 213:72–85. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. agee. 2015. 07. 027Agegnehu G et al (2016a) Benefits of biochar, compost and biochar–compost for soil quality, maize yield and greenhouse gas emis-sions in a tropical agricultural soil. Sci Total Environ 543:295–306. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2015. 11. 054Agegnehu G et al (2016b) Crop yield, plant nutrient uptake and soil physicochemical properties under organic soil amendments and nitrogen fertilization on Nitisols. Soil Tillage Res 160:1–13. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. still. 2016. 02. 003Agegnehu G et al (2017) The role of biochar and biochar-compost in improving soil quality and crop performance: a review. Appl Soil Ecol 119:156–170. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsoil. 2017. 06. 008Agyarko-Mintah E et al (2017) Biochar increases nitrogen retention and lowers greenhouse gas emissions when added to compost-ing poultry litter. Waste Manag 61:138–149. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. wasman. 2016. 11. 027Ahmad M et al (2014) Biochar as a sorbent for contaminant manage-ment in soil and water: a review. Chemosphere 99:19–33. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2013. 10. 071Ahmad Z et al (2018) Removal of Cu(II), Cd(II) and Pb(II) ions from aqueous solutions by biochars derived from potassium-rich bio-mass. J Clean Prod 180:437–449. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jclep  ro. 2018. 01. 1332463 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Ahmad MR et al (2020) Improvement effect of pyrolyzed agro-food biochar on the properties of magnesium phosphate cement. Sci Total Environ 718:137422. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv.  2020. 137422Ahmed MJ, Hameed BH (2018) Removal of emerging pharmaceuti-cal contaminants by adsorption in a fixed-bed column: a review. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 149:257–266. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  ecoenv. 2017. 12. 012Ahmed MB et al (2015) Adsorptive removal of antibiotics from water and wastewater: progress and challenges. Sci Total Environ 532:112–126. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2015. 05. 130Ahmed MB et al (2016) Progress in the preparation and application of modified biochar for improved contaminant removal from water and wastewater. Biores Technol 214:836–851. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 05. 057Ahmed MB et al (2017) Single and competitive sorption properties and mechanism of functionalized biochar for removing sulfonamide antibiotics from water. Chem Eng J 311:348–358. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. cej. 2016. 11. 106Ahmed MB et al (2018) Sorption of hydrophobic organic contami-nants on functionalized biochar: protagonist role of π–π electron–donor–acceptor interactions and hydrogen bonds. J Hazard Mater 360:270–278. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2018. 08. 005Ai T et al (2019) Daptomycin adsorption on magnetic ultra-fine wood-based biochars from water: kinetics, isotherms, and mechanism studies. Biores Technol 273:8–15. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018. 10. 039Akdeniz N (2019) A systematic review of biochar use in animal waste composting. Waste Manag 88:291–300. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  wasman. 2019. 03. 054Akhil D et al (2021) Production, characterization, activation and environmental applications of engineered biochar: a review. Environ Chem Lett 19:2261–2297. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s10311- 020- 01167-7Akhtar A, Sarmah AK (2018a) Strength improvement of recycled aggregate concrete through silicon rich char derived from organic waste. J Clean Prod 196:411–423. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2018a. 06. 044Akhtar A, Sarmah AK (2018b) Novel biochar-concrete composites: manufacturing, characterization and evaluation of the mechanical properties. Sci Total Environ 616–617:408–416. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 10. 319Al-Azzawi M et al (2021) Addition of activated carbon into a cattle diet to mitigate GHG emissions and improve production. Sustain-ability 13:8254. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ su131 58254Ali S et al (2017) Biochar soil amendment on alleviation of drought and salt stress in plants: a critical review. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 24:12700–12712. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 017- 8904-xAl-Saad K et al (2019) Recycling of date pits into a green adsorbent for removal of heavy metals: a fractional factorial design-based approach. Front Chem 7:552. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fchem.  2019. 00552Altaş L (2009) Inhibitory effect of heavy metals on methane-produc-ing anaerobic granular sludge. J Hazard Mater 162:1551–1556. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2008. 06. 048Ambaye TG et al (2020a) Anaerobic digestion of fruit waste mixed with sewage sludge digestate biochar: influence on biomethane production. Front Energy Res 8:31. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fenrg.  2020. 00031Ambaye TG et al (2020b) Mechanisms and adsorption capacities of biochar for the removal of organic and inorganic pollutants from industrial wastewater. Int J Environ Sci Technol 18:3273–3294. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s13762- 020- 03060-wAmbaye TG et al (2021) Beneficial role of biochar addition on the anaerobic digestion of food waste: a systematic and critical review of the operational parameters and mechanisms. J Environ Manag 290:112537. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2021.  112537An X et al (2020) Copyrolysis of biomass, bentonite, and nutrients as a new strategy for the synthesis of improved biochar-based slow-release fertilizers. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 8:3181–3190. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 9b064 83An X et al (2021a) Integrated co-pyrolysis and coating for the synthesis of a new coated biochar-based fertilizer with enhanced slow-release performance. J Clean Prod 283:124642. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020. 124642An T et al (2021b) The dual mechanisms of composite biochar and bio-film towards sustainable nutrient release control of phosphate fer -tilizer: effect on phosphorus utilization and crop growth. J Clean Prod 311:127329. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2021. 127329Anburajan P et al (2020) Impact of 5-hydroxy methyl furfural on con-tinuous hydrogen production from galactose and glucose feed-stock with periodic recovery. Int J Hydrog Energy 45:19045–19051. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ijhyd ene. 2020. 05. 018Andriamanohiarisoamanana FJ et al (2020) Kinetic study of oxytetra-cycline and chlortetracycline inhibition in the anaerobic digestion of dairy manure. Bioresour Technol 315:1238. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123810Anthonysamy S et  al (2021) Alkali-modified biochar as a sus-tainable adsorbent for the low-temperature uptake of nitric oxide. Int J Environ Sci Technol. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13762- 021- 03617-3Antonangelo JA et al (2021) The roles of co-composted biochar (COMBI) in improving soil quality, crop productivity, and toxic metal amelioration. J Environ Manag 277:111443. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2020. 111443Archanjo BS et al (2017) Nanoscale analyses of the surface structure and composition of biochars extracted from field trials or after co-composting using advanced analytical electron microscopy. Geoderma 294:70–79. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. geode rma. 2017.  01. 037Arslanoğlu H et al (2020) Cr(VI) adsorption on low-cost activated carbon developed from grape marc-vinasse mixture. Part Sci Technol 38:768–781. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 02726 351. 2019.  16323 99Artiola JF et al (2012) Effects of a biochar-amended alkaline soil on the growth of romaine lettuce and bermudagrass. Soil Sci 177:561–570. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1097/ SS. 0b013 e3182 6ba908Aruna O et al (2020) Effect of biochar on soil properties, soil loss, and cocoyam yield on a tropical Sandy loam alfisol. Transfus Apher Sci. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. agwat. 2020. 106263Ascher S et al (2019) Township-based bioenergy systems for distrib-uted energy supply and efficient household waste re-utilisation: techno-economic and environmental feasibility. Energy 181:455–467. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. energy. 2019. 05. 191Awasthi MK et al (2016) Effect of biochar amendment on greenhouse gas emission and bio-availability of heavy metals during sewage sludge co-composting. J Clean Prod 135:829–835. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2016. 07. 008Awasthi MK et al (2017a) Evaluation of biochar amended biosolids co-composting to improve the nutrient transformation and its cor -relation as a function for the production of nutrient-rich compost. Bioresour Technol 237:156–166. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2017. 01. 044Awasthi MK et al (2017b) Heterogeneity of biochar amendment to improve the carbon and nitrogen sequestration through reduce the greenhouse gases emissions during sewage sludge compost-ing. Bioresour Technol 224:428–438. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2016. 11. 014Awasthi MK et al (2020) Influence of bamboo biochar on mitigat-ing greenhouse gas emissions and nitrogen loss during poultry 2464 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3manure composting. Biores Technol 303:122952. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 122952Aydin S et al (2015) Development of antibiotic resistance genes in microbial communities during long-term operation of anaerobic reactors in the treatment of pharmaceutical wastewater. Water Res 83:337–344. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. watres. 2015. 07. 007Azeem B et al (2016) Effect of coating thickness on release character -istics of controlled release urea produced in fluidized bed using waterborne starch biopolymer as coating material. Procedia Eng 148:282–289. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. proeng. 2016. 06. 615Azimzadeh Y et al (2021) Effects of phosphate loaded LDH-biochar/hydrochar on maize dry matter and P uptake in a calcareous soil. Arch Agron Soil Sci 67:1649–1664. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/  03650 340. 2020. 18020 12Baltrėnaitė-Gedienė E et al (2020) Comparison of CU(II), MN(II) and ZN(II) adsorption on biochar using diagnostic and simulation models. Chemosphere 245:125562. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  chemo sphere. 2019. 125562Banerjee S et al (2018) Application of zirconium caged activated bio-char alginate beads towards deionization of Cr(VI) laden water in a fixed bed column reactor. J Environ Chem Eng 6:4018–4029. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jece. 2018. 06. 011Bardestani R et al (2019) The effect of biochar mild air oxidation on the optimization of lead(II) adsorption from wastewater. J Environ Manag 240:404–420. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2019.  03. 110Bardestani R et al (2020) Hydrogenation of Furfural to Furfuryl Alco-hol over Ru Particles supported on Mildly oxidized biochar. Catalysts 10:934. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ catal 10080 934Bass AM et al (2016) Soil properties, greenhouse gas emissions and crop yield under compost, biochar and co-composted biochar in two tropical agronomic systems. Sci Total Environ 550:459–470. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2016. 01. 143Batista RR, Gomes MM (2021) Effects of chemical composition and pyrolysis process variables on biochar yields: correlation and principal component analysis. Floresta e Ambiente. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1590/ 2179- 8087- floram- 2021- 0007Beakou BH et al (2017) A novel biochar from Manihot esculenta Crantz waste: application for the removal of Malachite Green from wastewater and optimization of the adsorption process. Water Sci Technol 76:1447–1456. https:// doi. org/ 10. 2166/ wst.  2017. 332Beiyuan J et al (2017) Mobility and phytoavailability of As and Pb in a contaminated soil using pine sawdust biochar under systematic change of redox conditions. Chemosphere 178:110–118. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2017. 03. 022Benítez A et al (2018) Almond shell as a microporous carbon source for sustainable cathodes in lithium–sulfur batteries. Materials (basel) 11:1428. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ ma110 81428Bernal MP et al (2009) Composting of animal manures and chemi-cal criteria for compost maturity assessment. A Rev Bioresour Technol 100:5444–5453. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2008.  11. 027Bhagat SK et al (2020) Development of artificial intelligence for mode-ling wastewater heavy metal removal: State of the art, application assessment and possible future research. J Clean Prod. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2019. 119473Bhattacharya S et al (2021) Thermal, Chemical and ultrasonic assisted synthesis of carbonized Biochar and its application for reducing Naproxen: batch and fixed bed study and subsequent optimization with response surface methodology (RSM) and artificial neural network (ANN). Surf Interfaces. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. surfin. 2021. 101378Bibi I et al (2016) Clay minerals: structure, chemistry, and significance in contaminated environments and geological CO2 sequestration. Environ Mater Waste. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ B978-0- 12-  803837- 6. 00021-4Binh QA, Nguyen H-H (2020) Investigation the isotherm and kinetics of adsorption mechanism of herbicide 2, 4-dichlorophenoxy -acetic acid (2, 4-D) on corn cob biochar. Bioresour Technol Rep 11:100520. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biteb. 2020. 100520Biswas S et al (2020) Process modelling and optimization of a novel Semifluidized bed adsorption column operation for aqueous phase divalent heavy metal ions removal. J Water Process Eng. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jwpe. 2020. 101406Blagojev N et al (2019) A new approach for modelling and optimiza-tion of Cu(II) biosorption from aqueous solutions using sugar beet shreds in a fixed-bed column. J Hazard Mater 363:366–375. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2018. 09. 068Boakye P et al (2019) Effect of water washing pretreatment on prop-erty and adsorption capacity of macroalgae-derived biochar. J Environ Manag 233:165–174. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm  an. 2018. 12. 031Bolan N et al (2021) Multifunctional applications of biochar beyond carbon storage. Int Mater Rev. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 09506 608.  2021. 19220 47Bona D et al (2020) Effects of woody biochar on dry thermophilic anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste. J Environ Manag 267:110633. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm  an. 2020. 110633Borchard N et al (2014) Application of biochars to sandy and silty soil failed to increase maize yield under common agricultural practice. Soil Tillage Res 144:184–194. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  still. 2014. 07. 016Brassard P et al (2016) Soil biochar amendment as a climate change mitigation tool: key parameters and mechanisms involved. J Environ Manag 181:484–497. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm  an. 2016. 06. 063Brookes JD, Carey CC (2015) Ensure availability and sustainable man-agement of water and sanitation for all. UN Chron 51:15–16. https:// doi. org/ 10. 18356/ d694f 52d- enBrowne J et al (2011) Assessing the cost of biofuel production with increasing penetration of the transport fuel market: a case study of gaseous biomethane in Ireland. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 15:4537–4547. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2011. 07. 098Bruni E et al (2010) Steam treatment of digested biofibers for increas-ing biogas production. Bioresour Technol 101:7668–7671. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2010. 04. 064Burrell LD et al (2016) Long-term effects of biochar on soil physi-cal properties. Geoderma 282:96–102. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  geode rma. 2016. 07. 019Bushra B, Remya N (2020) Biochar from pyrolysis of rice husk bio-mass—characteristics, modification and environmental appli-cation. Biomass Convers Biorefinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13399- 020- 01092-3Cai J et al (2016) Effects and optimization of the use of biochar in anaerobic digestion of food wastes. Waste Manag Res 34:409–416. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 07342 42X16 634196Cai Y et al (2017) Hierarchically porous carbon nanosheets derived from Moringa oleifera stems as electrode material for high-performance electric double-layer capacitors. J Power Sources 353:260–269. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2017. 04. 021Cai L et al (2019) Effective adsorption of diesel oil by crab-shell-derived biochar nanomaterials. Materials 12:236. https:// doi. org/  10. 3390/ ma120 20236Cantrell KB et al (2012) Impact of pyrolysis temperature and manure source on physicochemical characteristics of biochar. Biores Technol 107:419–428. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2011.  11. 0842465 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Cao Z et al (2015) Using contaminated plants involved in phytoreme-diation for anaerobic digestion. Int J Phytoremediation 17:201–207. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 15226 514. 2013. 876967Cao Y et al (2018) Biochar-enhanced composts reduce the potential leaching of nutrients and heavy metals and suppress plant-par -asitic nematodes in excessively fertilized cucumber soils. Envi-ron Sci Pollut Res Int 25:7589–7599. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 017- 1061-4Cao Y et al (2021) A critical review on the interactions of microplas-tics with heavy metals: mechanism and their combined effect on organisms and humans. Sci Total Environ 788:147620. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2021. 147620Cao R et al (2022) Enhanced remediation of Cr(VI)-contaminated groundwater by coupling electrokinetics with ZVI/Fe3O4/AC-based permeable reactive barrier. J Environ Sci (china) 112:280–290. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2021. 05. 002Cardona L et al (2021) Zeolite favours propionate syntrophic degrada-tion during anaerobic digestion of food waste under low ammo-nia stress. Chemosphere 262:127932. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  chemo sphere. 2020. 127932Castillo-González A et al (2014) Rumen microorganisms and fermenta-tion. Archivos De Medicina Veterinaria 46:349–361. https://  doi. org/ 10. 4067/ S0301- 732X2 01400 03000 03Chacón FJ et al (2020) Enhancing biochar redox properties through feedstock selection, metal preloading and post-pyrolysis treat-ments. Chem Eng J 395:125100. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej.  2020. 125100Chandra S et al (2020) Potassium-iron rice straw biochar composite for sorption of nitrate, phosphate, and ammonium ions in soil for timely and controlled release. Sci Total Environ 712:136337. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 136337Chatterjee R et al (2018) Ultrasound cavitation intensified amine functionalization: a feasible strategy for enhancing CO2 capture capacity of biochar. Fuel 225:287–298. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  fuel. 2018. 03. 145Chatterjee R et al (2019a) Low frequency ultrasound enhanced dual amination of biochar: a nitrogen-enriched sorbent for CO2 cap-ture. Energy Fuels 33:2366–2380. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acs.  energ yfuels. 8b035 83Chatterjee A et al (2019b) Layered double hydroxide based bionano-composites. Appl Clay Sci 177:19–36. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  clay. 2019. 04. 022Chen Y et al (2008) Inhibition of anaerobic digestion process: a review. Biores Technol 99:4044–4064. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech.  2007. 01. 057Chen Y-X et al (2010) Effects of bamboo charcoal and bamboo vinegar on nitrogen conservation and heavy metals immobility during pig manure composting. Chemosphere 78:1177–1181. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2009. 12. 029Chen JL et al (2014) Toxicants inhibiting anaerobic digestion: a review. Biotechnol Adv 32:1523–1534. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biote  chadv. 2014. 10. 005Chen L et al (2017a) Environmental-friendly montmorillonite-biochar composites: facile production and tunable adsorption-release of ammonium and phosphate. J Clean Prod 156:648–659. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2017. 04. 050Chen W et al (2017b) Effects of different types of biochar on methane and ammonia mitigation during layer manure composting. Waste Manag 61:506–515. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2017. 01.  014Chen L et al (2018a) Formulating and optimizing a novel biochar-based fertilizer for simultaneous slow-release of nitrogen and immobilization of cadmium. Sustainability 10:2740. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 3390/ su100 82740Chen S et al (2018b) Preparation and characterization of slow-release fertilizer encapsulated by biochar-based waterborne copolymers. Sci Total Environ 615:431–437. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 09. 209Chen H et al (2018c) Three-dimensional honeycomb-like porous car -bon with both interconnected hierarchical porosity and nitrogen self-doping from cotton seed husk for supercapacitor electrode. Nanomaterials (basel) 8:412. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ nano8  060412Chen H et al (2019) Preparation of pickling-reheating activated alfalfa biochar with high adsorption efficiency for p-nitrophenol: characterization, adsorption behavior, and mechanism. Envi-ron Sci Pollut Res 26:15300–15313. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 019- 04862-3Chen X et al (2020a) Preparation of porous biochars by the co-pyrolysis of municipal sewage sludge and hazelnut shells and the mecha-nism of the nano-zinc oxide composite and Cu (II) adsorption kinetics. Sustainability 12:8668. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ su122  08668Chen T et al (2020b) Synthesis and characterization of a novel mag-netic calcium-rich nanocomposite and its remediation behaviour for As (III) and Pb (II) co-contamination in aqueous systems. Sci Total Environ 706:135122. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 135122Chen H et al (2020c) Effects of microbial culture and chicken manure biochar on compost maturity and greenhouse gas emissions dur -ing chicken manure composting. J Hazard Mater 389:121908. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2019. 121908Chen M et al (2021a) Methane production and characteristics of the microbial community in the co-digestion of potato pulp waste and dairy manure amended with biochar. Renew Energy 163:357–367. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. renene. 2020. 09. 006Chen H et al (2021b) Polyamide 6 microplastics facilitate methane production during anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge. Chem Eng J 408:127251. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej. 2020.  127251Chen W-H et al (2021c) Progress in biomass torrefaction: principles, applications and challenges. Prog Energy Combust Sci. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. pecs. 2020. 100887Cheng Q et al (2020a) Improving anaerobic digestion of piggery waste-water by alleviating stress of ammonia using biochar derived from rice straw. Environ Technol Innov 19:100948. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. eti. 2020. 100948Cheng H et al (2020b) From macroalgae to porous graphitized nitro -gen-doped biochars - Using aquatic biota to treat polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons-contaminated water. Bioresour Technol 303:122947. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 122947Chiappero M et al (2020) Review of biochar role as additive in anaero-bic digestion processes. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 131:110037. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2020. 110037Chiappero M et al (2021) Analysis of the influence of activated biochar properties on methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge. Biomass Bioenerg 150:106129. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biomb ioe. 2021. 106129Cho D-W et al (2017) Simultaneous production of syngas and magnetic biochar via pyrolysis of paper mill sludge using CO 2 as reac-tion medium. Energy Convers Manag 145:1–9. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. encon man. 2017. 04. 095Choi Y-K, Kan E (2019) Effects of pyrolysis temperature on the phys-icochemical properties of alfalfa-derived biochar for the adsorp -tion of bisphenol A and sulfamethoxazole in water. Chemosphere 218:741–748. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2018. 11.  151Choi J-H et al (2018) High capacitance and energy density supercapaci-tor based on biomass-derived activated carbons with reduced gra-phene oxide binder. Carbon 132:16–24. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  carbon. 2018. 01. 1052466 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Choi I-C et al (2019) Post-CMP cleaning of InGaAs surface for the removal of nanoparticle contaminants for Sub-10nm device applications. ECS J Solid State Sci Technol 8:P3028–P3034. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1149/2. 00519 05jssChoi YK et al (2020) Adsorption behavior of tetracycline onto Spir -ulina sp. (microalgae)-derived biochars produced at different temperatures. Sci Total Environ 710:136282. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 136282Choudhary M et al (2020) Activated biochar derived from Opuntia ficus-indica for the efficient adsorption of malachite green dye,  Cu+2 and  Ni+2 from water. J Hazard Mater 392:122441. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020. 122441Choudhury A, Lansing S (2020) Biochar addition with Fe impregnation to reduce H2S production from anaerobic digestion. Biores Tech-nol 306:123121. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123121Chowdhury MA et al (2014) Potential of aeration flow rate and bio-char addition to reduce greenhouse gas and ammonia emissions during manure composting. Chemosphere 97:16–25. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2013. 10. 030Chrysargyris A et al (2020) Biochar type, ratio, and nutrient levels in growing media affects seedling production and plant perfor -mance. Agronomy 10:1421. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ agron omy10  091421Chu GM et al (2013a) Effects of bamboo charcoal on the growth per -formance, blood characteristics and noxious gas emission in fat-tening pigs. J Appl Anim Res 41:48–55. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1080/  09712 119. 2012. 738219Chu GM et al (2013b) Effects of dietary bamboo charcoal on the car -cass characteristics and meat quality of fattening pigs. Food Sci Anim Resour 33:348–355. https:// doi. org/ 10. 5851/ kosfa. 2013.  33.3. 348Chu GM et al (2013c) Effects of bamboo charcoal and bamboo vin-egar as antibiotic alternatives on growth performance, immune responses and fecal microflora population in fattening pigs. Anim Sci J 84:113–120. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/j. 1740- 0929.  2012. 01045.xChun Y et al (2004) Compositions and sorptive properties of crop res-idue-derived chars. Environ Sci Technol 38:4649–4655. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ es035 034wChunxue Y et al (2015) Developing more effective enhanced biochar fertilisers for improvement of pepper yield and quality. Pedo -sphere 25:703–712. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ S1002- 0160(15)  30051-5Cimon C et al (2020) Effect of biochar and wood ash amendment on biochemical methane production of wastewater sludge from a temperature phase anaerobic digestion process. Biores Technol 297:122440. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 122440Cosentino I et al (2019) Type of materials, pyrolysis conditions, car -bon content and size dimensions: the parameters that influence the mechanical properties of biochar cement-based composites. Theor Appl Fract Mech 103:102261. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  tafmec. 2019. 102261Cui E et al (2016a) Effect of different biochars on antibiotic resistance genes and bacterial community during chicken manure compost-ing. Biores Technol 203:11–17. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2015. 12. 030Cui X et al (2016b) Potential mechanisms of cadmium removal from aqueous solution by Canna indica derived biochar. Sci Total Environ 562:517–525. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2016.  03. 248Cuthbertson D et al (2019) Biochar from residual biomass as a con-crete filler for improved thermal and acoustic properties. Biomass Bioenerg 120:77–83. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biomb ioe. 2018.  11. 007Czekała W et al (2016) Co-composting of poultry manure mixtures amended with biochar—the effect of biochar on temperature and C-CO2 emission. Biores Technol 200:921–927. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2015. 11. 019Dahbi M et al (2017) Synthesis of hard carbon from argan shells for Na-ion batteries. J Mater Chem A 5:9917–9928. https:// doi. org/  10. 1039/ c7ta0 1394aDai X et al (2017) Impact of a high ammonia-ammonium-pH system on methane-producing archaea and sulfate-reducing bacteria in mesophilic anaerobic digestion. Bioresour Technol 245:598–605. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 08. 208Dai Y et al (2019) The adsorption, regeneration and engineering appli-cations of biochar for removal organic pollutants: a review. Che-mosphere 223:12–27. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere.  2019. 01. 161Dai Y et al (2020) Combined effects of biochar properties and soil conditions on plant growth: a meta-analysis. Sci Total Environ 713:136635. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 136635Dalhat MA et al (2021) Generalized decay and artificial neural network models for fixed-Bed phenolic compounds adsorption onto acti-vated date palm biochar. J Environ Chem Eng. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jece. 2020. 104711Daliakopoulos I et al (2016) The threat of soil salinity: a European scale review. Sci Total Environ 573:727–739. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2016. 08. 177Damodar D et al (2019) Hard carbon derived from sepals of Palmyra palm fruit calyx as an anode for sodium-ion batteries. J Power Sources 438:227008. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2019.  227008Danielsson R et al (2017) Methane production in dairy cows correlates with rumen methanogenic and bacterial community structure. Front Microbiol 8:226. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fmicb. 2017.  00226Das SK et al (2020a) Valorizing biomass to engineered biochar and its impact on soil, plant, water, and microbial dynamics: a review. Biomass Conver Biorefinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13399- 020- 00836-5Das SK et al (2020b) Application of biochar in agriculture and environ-ment, and its safety issues. Biomass Convers Biorefinery. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s13399- 020- 01013-4Das SK et al (2021) Compositional heterogeneity of different biochar: effect of pyrolysis temperature and feedstocks. J Environ Manag 278:111501. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2020. 111501Dawar K et al (2021) Influence of variable biochar concentration on yield-scaled nitrous oxide emissions, Wheat yield and nitro-gen use efficiency. Sci Rep 11:1–10. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/  s41598- 021- 96309-4de Franco MAE et al (2017) Removal of amoxicillin from water by adsorption onto activated carbon in batch process and fixed bed column: Kinetics, isotherms, experimental design and break -through curves modelling. J Clean Prod 161:947–956. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2017. 05. 197Deng Y et al (2017) Biochar adsorption treatment for typical pollutants removal in livestock wastewater: a review. Eng Appl Biochar. https:// doi. org/ 10. 5772/ intec  hopen. 68253Deng Y et al (2019) Adsorption behaviour and mechanisms of cad-mium and nickel on rice straw biochars in single- and binary-metal systems. Chemosphere 218:308–318. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. chemo sphere. 2018. 11. 081Deng R et al (2020) Recent advances of biochar materials for typical potentially toxic elements management in aquatic environments: a review. J Clean Prod 255:119523. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jclep ro. 2019. 119523Deng B et al (2021) Feedstock particle size and pyrolysis tempera-ture regulate effects of biochar on soil nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide emissions. Waste Manag 120:33–40. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. wasman. 2020. 11. 0152467 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Diao Z-H et al (2020a) Degradation of 2,4-dichlorophenol by a novel iron based system and its synergism with Cd(II) immobilization in a contaminated soil. Chem Eng J. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cej. 2019. 122313Diao Z-H et al (2020b) Removals of Cr(VI) and Cd(II) by a novel nanoscale zero valent iron/peroxydisulfate process and its Fen-ton-like oxidation of pesticide atrazine: coexisting effect, prod-ucts and mechanism. Chem Eng J. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej.  2020. 125382Diao ZH et al (2021) Ultrasound-assisted catalytic reduction of Cr(VI) by an acid mine drainage based nZVI coupling with FeS2 system from aqueous solutions: performance and mechanism. J Envi-ron Manag 278:111518. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2020.  111518Diaz LF et al (2011) Compost science and technology. Elsevier. https://  www. elsev ier. com/ books/ compo st- scien ce- and- techn ology/ diaz/  978-0- 08- 043960-0Dissanayake PD et al (2020) Biochar-based adsorbents for carbon dioxide capture: a critical review. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 119:109582. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2019. 109582Dixit A et al (2019) Waste Valorisation using biochar for cement replacement and internal curing in ultra-high performance con-crete. J Clean Prod 238:117876. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep  ro. 2019. 117876do Nascimento BF et al (2021) adsorption of reactive black 5 and basic blue 12 using biochar from gasification residues: batch tests and fixed-bed breakthrough predictions for wastewater treatment. Bioresour Technol Rep 15:100767. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biteb. 2021. 100767Doan TT et al (2015) Impact of compost, vermicompost and biochar on soil fertility, maize yield and soil erosion in Northern Vietnam: a three year mesocosm experiment. Sci Total Environ 514:147–154. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2015. 02. 005Domeignoz-Horta LA et al (2018) Peaks of in situ  N2O emissions are influenced by  N2O-producing and reducing microbial communi-ties across arable soils. Glob Chang Biol 24:360–370. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1111/ gcb. 13853Domingues RR et al (2020) Enhancing cation exchange capacity of weathered soils using biochar: feedstock, pyrolysis conditions and addition rate. Agronomy 10:824. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  agron omy10 060824Dong X et al (2018) Removal of 17β-estradiol by using highly adsorp-tive magnetic biochar nanoparticles from aqueous solution. Chem Eng J 352:371–379. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej. 2018.  07. 025Du J et al (2019) Effects of biochar on the microbial activity and com-munity structure during sewage sludge composting. Biores Tech-nol 272:171–179. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018.  10. 020EBC (2012a) European biochar certificate—guidelines for a sustain-able production of biochar. European Biochar Foundation (EBC), Arbaz, Switzerland. (http:// Europ ean- bioch ar. org). Version 9.2E of 2nd December 2020.EBC I (2012b) Comparison of European biochar certificate version 4. 8 and IBI biochar standards version 2.0 European Biochar Certifi-cate first publication March 2012b. http:// www. europ ean- bioch  ar. org/ en/ home IBI Biochar Stand first Publ May.Eger M et al (2018) Application of MootralTM reduces methane pro-duction by altering the archaea community in the rumen simula-tion technique. Front Microbiol 9:2094. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/  fmicb. 2018. 02094El Hanandeh A et al (2021) Modelling of the adsorption of Pb, Cu and Ni ions from single and multi-component aqueous solutions by date seed derived biochar: Comparison of six machine learning approaches. Environ Res 192:110338. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  envres. 2020. 110338Elazazy MS (2017) Factorial design and machine learning strategies: impacts on pharmaceutical analysis. Spectrosc Anal Dev Appl. https:// doi. org/ 10. 5772/ intec  hopen. 69891El-Azazy M et al (2020) A comparison between different agro-wastes and carbon nanotubes for removal of sarafloxacin from wastewa-ter: kinetics and equilibrium studies. Molecules 25:5429. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ molec ules2 52254 29El-Azazy M et al (2021a) Biochar of spent coffee grounds as per se and impregnated with  TiO2: promising waste-derived adsorbents for balofloxacin. Molecules 26:2295. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ molec  ules2 60822 95El-Azazy M et al (2021b) Eco-structured adsorptive removal of tige-cycline from wastewater: date pits’ biochar versus the magnetic biochar. Nanomaterials 11:30. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ nano1  10100 30El-Azazy M et al (2021c) Adsorption characteristics of pristine and magnetic olive stones biochar with respect to clofazimine. Nano-materials (basel) 11:963. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ nano1 10409 63Elgarahy AM et al (2019) Microwave-accelerated sorption of cationic dyes onto green marine algal biomass. Environ Sci Pollut Res 26:22704–22722. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 019- 05417-2El-Shafie AS et al (2021) Watermelon rinds as cost-efficient adsor -bent for acridine orange: a response surface methodological approach. Environ Sci Pollut Res. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 021- 13652-9Eltaweil AS et al (2020) Mesoporous magnetic biochar composite for enhanced adsorption of malachite green dye: characterization, adsorption kinetics, thermodynamics and isotherms. Adv Pow -der Technol 31:1253–1263. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apt. 2020.  01. 005Ersan G et al (2017) Adsorption of organic contaminants by graphene nanosheets: a review. Water Res 126:385–398. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. watres. 2017. 08. 010Evans AM et al (2015) Effect of poultry litter biochar diet inclusion on feed manufacture and 4- to 21-d broiler performance. J Appl Poultry Res 24:380–386. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3382/ japr/ pfv039Evans AM et al (2017) The effect of poultry litter biochar on pellet quality, one to 21 d broiler performance, digesta viscosity, bone mineralization, and apparent ileal amino acid digestibility. J Appl Poultry Res 26:89–98. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3382/ japr/ pfw049Eyles A et al (2015) Impact of biochar amendment on the growth, physiology and fruit of a young commercial apple orchard. Trees 29:1817–1826. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00468- 015- 1263-7Fagbohungbe MO et al (2017) The challenges of anaerobic digestion and the role of biochar in optimizing anaerobic digestion. Waste Manag 61:236–249. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2016. 11.  028Faheem et al (2019) Multi-functional biochar novel surface chemis-try for efficient capture of anionic Congo red dye: behavior and mechanism. Arab J Sci Eng 44:10127–10139. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s13369- 019- 04194-xFan S et al (2017) Removal of methylene blue from aqueous solution by sewage sludge-derived biochar: adsorption kinetics, equilib-rium, thermodynamics and mechanism. J Environ Chem Eng 5:601–611. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jece. 2016. 12. 019Fan J et al (2020) Remediation of cadmium and lead polluted soil using thiol-modified biochar. J Hazard Mater 388:122037. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020. 122037FAO (2019) Emissions from agriculture and forest land. Global, regional and country trends 1990–2019, vol. 2021. https:// www.  fao. org/ faost  at/ en/# data/ GtFarhangi-Abriz S, Torabian S (2017) Biochar increased plant growth-promoting hormones and helped to alleviates salt stress in com-mon bean seedlings. J Plant Growth Regul 37:591–601. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00344- 017- 9756-92468 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Farooq M et al (2018) In-situ regeneration of activated carbon with electric potential swing desorption (EPSD) for the H2S removal from biogas. Biores Technol 249:125–131. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 09. 198Fawzy S et al (2020) Strategies for mitigation of climate change: a review. Environ Chem Lett 18:2069–2094. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10311- 020- 01059-wFawzy S et al (2021) Industrial biochar systems for atmospheric carbon removal: a review. Environ Chem Lett. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s10311- 021- 01210-1Feng Q, Lin Y (2017) Integrated processes of anaerobic digestion and pyrolysis for higher bioenergy recovery from lignocellulosic bio-mass: a brief review. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 77:1272–1287. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2017. 03. 022Fernández-González R et al (2019) Effective removal of zinc from industrial plating wastewater using hydrolyzed olive cake: scale-up and preparation of zinc-Based biochar. J Clean Prod 227:634–644. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2019. 04. 195Fidel RB et al (2017) Characterization and quantification of biochar alkalinity. Chemosphere 167:367–373. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2016. 09. 151Finberg RW et al (2004) The importance of bactericidal drugs: future directions in infectious disease. Clin Infect Dis 39:1314–1320. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1086/ 425009Flores KR et al (2021) Effect of pellet quality and biochar litter amend-ment on male turkey performance. Poult Sci 100:101002. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. psj. 2021. 01. 025Flores-Orozco D et al (2020) Effect of ceftiofur on mesophilic anaero-bic digestion of dairy manure and the reduction of the cephalo-sporin-resistance gene cmy-2. Bioresour Technol 301:122729. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 122729Franciski MA et al (2018) Development of CO2 activated biochar from solid wastes of a beer industry and its application for methylene blue adsorption. Waste Manag 78:630–638. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. wasman. 2018. 06. 040Fu SF et al (2018a) Exposure to polystyrene nanoplastic leads to inhibi -tion of anaerobic digestion system. Sci Total Environ 625:64–70. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 12. 158Fu H et al (2018b) Network Carbon with Macropores from Apple Pom-ace for Stable and High Areal Capacity of Sodium Storage. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 6:14751–14758. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 8b032 97Fu-Qiang H et al (2018) Porous cotton-derived carbon: synthesis, microstructure and supercapacitive performance. J Inorg Mater 33:93–99. https:// doi. org/ 10. 15541/ jim20 170164Gabhi RS et al (2017) Preliminary investigation of electrical conductiv -ity of monolithic biochar. Carbon 116:435–442. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. carbon. 2017. 01. 069Gaddam RR et al (2017) Spinifex nanocellulose derived hard carbon anodes for high-performance sodium-ion batteries. Sustain Energy Fuels 1:1090–1097. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7se0 0169jGan X, Zhang W (2021) Application of biochar from crop straw in asphalt modification. PLoS ONE 16:e0247390. https:// doi. org/  10. 1371/ journ al. pone. 02473 90Gandla D et al (2021) High-performance and high-voltage superca-pacitors based on N-doped mesoporous activated carbon derived from dragon fruit peels. ACS Omega 6:7615–7625. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1021/ acsom ega. 0c061 71Gao M et al (2020) Hierarchically porous biochar for supercapacitor and electrochemical H2O2 production. Chem Eng J 402:126171. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej. 2020. 126171García-González MC et  al (2016) Recovery of ammonia from anaerobically digested manure using gas-permeable mem -branes. Scientia Agricola 73:434–438. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1590/  0103- 9016- 2015- 0159Gelardi DL, Parikh SJ (2021) Soils and beyond: optimizing sustain-ability opportunities for biochar. Sustainability 13:10079. https://  doi. org/ 10. 3390/ su131 810079Georgiou D et al (2019) Investigation of an integrated treatment tech-nique for anaerobically digested animal manure: lime reaction and settling, ammonia stripping and neutralization by biogas scrubbing. Bioresour Technol Rep 5:127–133. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biteb. 2019. 01. 001Gerlach A, Schmidt H-P (2012) The use of biochar in cattle farming. Ithaka J 281–285. www. bioch ar- journ al. org/ en/ ct/9Ghosh P et al (2019) Assessment of methane emissions and energy recovery potential from the municipal solid waste landfills of Delhi, India. Bioresour Technol 272:611–615. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018. 10. 069Głąb T et al (2018) Effects of co-composted maize, sewage sludge, and biochar mixtures on hydrological and physical qualities of sandy soil. Geoderma 315:27–35. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. geode  rma. 2017. 11. 034Godlewska P et al (2017) Biochar for composting improvement and contaminants reduction. A review. Bioresour Technol 246:193–202. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 07. 095Goiri I et al (2021) Assessing the potential use of a feed additive based on biochar on broilers feeding upon productive performance, pH of digestive organs, cecum fermentation and bacterial com-munity. Anim Feed Sci Technol 279:115039. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. anife edsci. 2021. 115039Golmohammadi F, Amiri M (2020) Facile synthesis of nanofiber com-posite based on biomass-derived material conjugated with nano-particles of Ni–Co oxides for high-performance supercapacitors. J Mater Sci Mater Electron 31:2269–2279. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s10854- 019- 02759-yGong H et al (2020) Optimizing dry anaerobic digestion at pilot scale for start-up strategy and long-term operation: organic loading rate, temperature and co-digestion. Bioresour Technol 316:123828. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123828Gonzaga MIS et al (2018) Positive and negative effects of biochar from coconut husks, orange bagasse and pine wood chips on maize (Zea mays L.) growth and nutrition. CATENA 162:414–420. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. catena. 2017. 10. 018Gopinath A et al (2021) Conversion of sewage sludge into biochar: a potential resource in water and wastewater treatment. Environ Res 194:110656. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envres. 2020. 110656Graber ER et al (2010) Biochar impact on development and productiv -ity of pepper and tomato grown in fertigated soilless media. Plant Soil 337:481–496. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11104- 010- 0544-6Granada L et al (2016) Is integrated multitrophic aquaculture the solu-tion to the sectors’ major challenges?—a review. Rev Aquac 8:283–300. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ raq. 12093Grutzmacher P et al (2018) Carbon stability and mitigation of ferti-lizer induced  N2O emissions in soil amended with biochar. Sci Total Environ 625:1459–1466. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 12. 196Gu S et al (2021) Fabrication of porous carbon derived from cotton/pol-yester waste mixed with oyster shells: pore-forming process and application for tetracycline removal. Chemosphere 270:129483. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2020. 129483Guo W et al (2018a) Sorptive removal of phenanthrene from aqueous solutions using magnetic and non-magnetic rice husk-derived biochars. R Soc Open Sci 5:172382. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1098/  rsos. 172382Guo Y et al (2018b) Marine-biomass-derived porous carbon sheets with a tunable N-doping content for superior sodium-ion storage. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 10:38376–38386. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1021/ acsami. 8b143 042469 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Guo X-X et al (2020a) The role of biochar in organic waste composting and soil improvement: a review. Waste Manage 102:884–899. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2019. 12. 003Guo M et al (2020b) Biochar-facilitated soil remediation: mechanisms and efficacy variations. Front Environ Sci. https:// doi. org/ 10.  3389/ fenvs. 2020. 521512Gupta S, Kashani A (2021) Utilization of biochar from unwashed peanut shell in cementitious building materials—effect on early age properties and environmental benefits. Fuel Process Technol 218:106841. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. fuproc. 2021. 106841Gupta S, Kua HW (2018) Effect of water entrainment by pre-soaked biochar particles on strength and permeability of cement mor -tar. Constr Build Mater 159:107–125. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  conbu ildmat. 2017. 10. 095Gupta S, Kua HW (2019) Carbonaceous micro-filler for cement: effect of particle size and dosage of biochar on fresh and hardened properties of cement mortar. Sci Total Environ 662:952–962. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 01. 269Gupta S, Kua HW (2020) Application of rice husk biochar as filler in cenosphere modified mortar: preparation, characterization and performance under elevated temperature. Constr Build Mater 253:119083. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020. 119083Gupta S et al (2018a) Biochar-mortar composite: Manufacturing, evaluation of physical properties and economic viability. Constr Build Mater 167:874–889. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat.  2018. 02. 104Gupta S et al (2018b) Use of biochar as carbon sequestering additive in cement mortar. Cem Concr Compos 87:110–129. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. cemco ncomp. 2017. 12. 009Gupta S et al (2020a) Application of biochar from coconut and wood waste to reduce shrinkage and improve physical properties of silica fume-cement mortar. Constr Build Mater 262:120688. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020. 120688Gupta S et al (2020b) Carbonaceous inserts from lignocellulosic and non-lignocellulosic sources in cement mortar: preparation condi-tions and its effect on hydration kinetics and physical properties. Constr Build Mater 264:120214. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020. 120214Gupta S et al (2021) Comparing influence of inert biochar and silica rich biochar on cement mortar–Hydration kinetics and durabil-ity under chloride and sulfate environment. Constr Build Mater 268:121142. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020. 121142Gurav R et al (2021) Application of macroalgal biomass derived bio-char and bioelectrochemical system with Shewanella for the adsorptive removal and biodegradation of toxic azo dye. Che -mosphere 264:128539. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere.  2020. 128539Güzel F et al (2017) Optimal oxidation with nitric acid of biochar derived from pyrolysis of weeds and its application in removal of hazardous dye methylene blue from aqueous solution. J Clean Prod 144:260–265. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2017. 01. 029Gwenzi W et al (2015) Biochar production and applications in sub-Saharan Africa: opportunities, constraints, risks and uncertain-ties. J Environ Manag 150:250–261. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jenvm an. 2014. 11. 027Gwenzi W et al (2017) Biochar-based water treatment systems as a potential low-cost and sustainable technology for clean water provision. J Environ Manag 197:732–749. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jenvm an. 2017. 03. 087Gwenzi W et al (2018) Synthesis and nutrient release patterns of a biochar-based N-P–K slow-release fertilizer. Int J Environ Sci Technol 15:405–414. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s13762- 017- 1399-7Hagemann N et al (2017a) Organic coating on biochar explains its nutrient retention and stimulation of soil fertility. Nat Commun 8:1089. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/ s41467- 017- 01123-0Hagemann N et al (2017b) Does soil aging affect the  N2O mitigation potential of biochar? A combined microcosm and field study. GCB Bioenergy 9:953–964. https://  doi. org/ 10.  1111/  gcbb.  12390Hagemann N et al (2018) Effect of biochar amendment on compost organic matter composition following aerobic composting of manure. Sci Total Environ 613–614:20–29. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 08. 161Hansen H et al (2012) Effect of biochar on in vitro rumen methane production. Acta Agriculturae Scandinavica Sect A Anim Sci 62:305–309. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 09064 702. 2013. 789548Hao Z et al (2021) Novel magnetic loofah sponge biochar enhanc-ing microbial responses for the remediation of polycyclic aro-matic hydrocarbons-contaminated sediment. J Hazard Mater 401:123859. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020. 123859Harsono SS et al (2013) Energy balances, greenhouse gas emissions and economics of biochar production from palm oil empty fruit bunches. Resour Conserv Recycl 77:108–115. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. resco nrec. 2013. 04. 005Harter J et al (2016) Gas entrapment and microbial  N2O reduction reduce  N2O emissions from a biochar-amended sandy clay loam soil. Sci Rep 6:1–15. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/ srep3 9574Hashem A et al (2019) Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and biochar improves drought tolerance in chickpea. Saudi J Biol Sci 26:614–624. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. sjbs. 2018. 11. 005Hassan SS et al (2020) Application of pineapple leaves as adsorbents for removal of Rose Bengal from wastewater: process optimiza-tion operating face-centered central composite design (FCCCD). Molecules 25:3752. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ molec ules2 51637 52He X et al (2018a) Effect of different particle-size biochar on methane emissions during pig manure/wheat straw aerobic composting: Insights into pore characterization and microbial mechanisms. Bioresour Technol 268:633–637. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2018. 08. 047He L et al (2018b) Comparative analysis biochar and compost-induced degradation of di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in soils. Sci Total Environ 625:987–993. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018.  01. 002He X et al (2019) Effects of biochar size and type on gaseous emissions during pig manure/wheat straw aerobic composting: Insights into multivariate-microscale characterization and microbial mecha-nism. Bioresour Technol 271:375–382. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2018. 09. 104Hencz L et al (2017) Highly porous nitrogen-doped seaweed carbon for high-performance lithium–sulfur batteries. J Mater Sci 52:12336–12347. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10853- 017- 1288-yHervy M et al (2018) H2S removal from syngas using wastes pyrolysis chars. Chem Eng J 334:2179–2189. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej.  2017. 11. 162Hien NN et al (2018) Effects of biochar inclusion in feed and chicken litter on growth performance, plasma lipids and fecal bacteria count of Noi lai chicken. Livest Res Rural Dev 30:131. http://  www. lrrd. org/ lrrd30/ 7/ nnxdu 30131. htmlHina K et al (2015) Comparison of Pine Bark, biochar and zeolite as sorbents for  NH4+-N removal from water. Clean–soil Air Water 43:86–91. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ clen. 20130 0682Hiranjit C (2015) Biology, Biotechnology and Sustainable Develop-ment. Research India Publications. ISBN: 978-93-84443-19-1Hodgson E et al (2016) Optimisation of slow-pyrolysis process con-ditions to maximise char yield and heavy metal adsorption of biochar produced from different feedstocks. Bioresour Technol 214:574–581. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 05. 009Hong C, Lu S (2018) Does biochar affect the availability and chemi-cal fractionation of phosphate in soils? Environ Sci Pollut Res 25:8725–8734. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 018- 1219-8Hoslett J et al (2021) The removal of tetracycline from water using biochar produced from agricultural discarded material. Sci Total 2470 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Environ 751:141755. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv.  2020.  141755Hosmane N (2017) Review of bonding theories for d-block metal complexes. Adv Inorg Chem. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ B978-0-  12- 801982- 5. 00006-0Hu J et al (2018) Sulfamethazine (SMZ) affects fermentative short-chain fatty acids production from waste activated sludge. Sci Total Environ 639:1471–1479. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018. 05. 264Hua L et al (2009) Reduction of nitrogen loss and Cu and Zn mobil-ity during sludge composting with bamboo charcoal amend-ment. Environ Sci Pollut Res 16:1–9. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 008- 0041-0Huang H et al (2014) Removal of ammonia from landfill leachate by struvite precipitation with the use of low-cost phosphate and magnesium sources. J Environ Manag 145:191–198. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2014. 06. 021Huang Y-F et al (2015) Microwave pyrolysis of rice straw to produce biochar as an adsorbent for CO2 capture. Energy 84:75–82. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. energy. 2015. 02. 026Huang X et al (2019a) Effect of clarithromycin on the production of volatile fatty acids from waste activated sludge anaerobic fermen-tation. Bioresour Technol 288:121598. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2019. 121598Huang C et al (2019b) Anaerobic digestion of elephant grass hydro-lysate: biogas production, substrate metabolism and outlet efflu-ent treatment. Bioresour Technol 283:191–197. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 03. 079Huang Q et al (2019c) Biochar-based materials and their applications in removal of organic contaminants from wastewater: state-of-the-art review. Biochar 1:45–73. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s42773- 019- 00006-5Huang SW et al (2020) Bio-reduction and synchronous removal of hexavalent chromium from aqueous solutions using novel micro-bial cell/algal-derived biochar particles: turning an environmen-tal problem into an opportunity. Bioresour Technol 309:123304. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123304Husni M, Samsuri A (2012) Characterization of local mill rice husk charcoal and its effect on compost properties. Malays J Soil Sci 16:89–102. https:// www. cabdi rect. org/ cabdi rect/ abstr  act/ 20143  098201Ifthikar J et al (2017) Highly efficient lead distribution by magnetic sewage sludge biochar: sorption mechanisms and bench appli-cations. Biores Technol 238:399–406. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2017. 03. 133Igalavithana AD et al (2017) Advances and future directions of biochar characterization methods and applications. Crit Rev Environ Sci Technol 47:2275–2330. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 10643 389. 2017. 14218 44Indren M et al (2020) Effect of total solids content on anaerobic diges-tion of poultry litter with biochar. J Environ Manag 255:109744. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2019. 109744Inglezakis VJ, Poulopoulos SG (2006) Adsorption, ion exchange and catalysis: design of operations and environmental applications. Elsevier Science B VIppolito JA et al (2020) Feedstock choice, pyrolysis temperature and type influence biochar characteristics: a comprehensive meta-data analysis review. Biochar. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s42773- 020- 00067-xJačka L et al (2018) Biochar presence in soil significantly decreased saturated hydraulic conductivity due to swelling. Soil Tillage Res 184:181–185. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. still. 2018. 07. 018Jain MS et al (2018) Biochar amendment for batch composting of nitro-gen rich organic waste: effect on degradation kinetics, compost-ing physics and nutritional properties. Biores Technol 253:204–213. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018. 01. 038Jaiswal AK et al (2018) Activating biochar by manipulating the bacte-rial and fungal microbiome through pre-conditioning. New Phy -tol 219:363–377. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ nph. 15042Jang HM et al (2018) Effects of dairy manure-derived biochar on psy -chrophilic, mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestions of dairy manure. Biores Technol 250:927–931. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 11. 074Janu R et al (2021) Biochar surface functional groups as affected by biomass feedstock, biochar composition and pyrolysis tempera-ture. Carbon Resour Convers 4:36–46. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  crcon. 2021. 01. 003Jeffery S et al (2017) Biochar boosts tropical but not temperate crop yields. Environ Res Lett 12:053001. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1088/  1748- 9326/ aa67bdJeon J et al (2019) Characterization of biocomposite using coconut oil impregnated biochar as latent heat storage insulation. Che-mosphere 236:124269. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere.  2019. 06. 239Jeon J et al (2021) Evaluation of hygrothermal performance of wood-derived biocomposite with biochar in response to climate change. Environ Res 193:110359. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envres. 2020.  110359Ji M et al (2022) Effects of different feedstocks-based biochar on soil remediation: a review. Environ Pollut 294:118655. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol. 2021. 118655Jia Y et al (2020) Preparation of biochar as a coating material for bio-char-coated urea. Sci Total Environ 731:139063. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 139063Jiang W et al (2019) Hollow-tubular porous carbon derived from cotton with high productivity for enhanced performance supercapacitor. J Power Sources 438:226936. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jpows  our. 2019. 226936Jiang X et al (2020) Fe2O3/hemp straw-based porous carbon compos-ite for supercapacitor electrode materials. Ionics 26:4039–4051. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11581- 020- 03547-zJiang S et al (2021) Immobilization of heavy metal(loid)s in acid paddy soil by soil replacement-biochar amendment technology under normal wet condition. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 28:68886–68896. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 021- 14757-xJien S-H, Wang C-S (2013) Effects of biochar on soil properties and erosion potential in a highly weathered soil. CATENA 110:225–233. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. catena. 2013. 06. 021Jin Z et al (2019) Soil acidity, available phosphorus content, and opti-mal biochar and nitrogen fertilizer application rates: a five-year field trial in upland red soil, China. Field Crops Res 232:77–87. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. fcr. 2018. 12. 013Jin L et al (2020) Investigations of the effect of the amount of biochar on soil porosity and aggregation and crop yields on fertilized black soil in northern China. PLoS ONE 15:e0238883. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journ al. pone. 02388 83Jin Y et al (2021) Characterization of biochars derived from various spent mushroom substrates and evaluation of their adsorption performance of Cu(II) ions from aqueous solution. Environ Res 196:110323. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envres. 2020. 110323Jindo K et al (2016) Influence of biochar addition on the humic sub-stances of composting manures. Waste Manag 49:545–552. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2016. 01. 007Joseph S et al (2015) Feeding biochar to cows: an innovative solution for improving soil fertility and farm productivity. Pedosphere 25:666–679. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ S1002- 0160(15) 30047-3Joseph S et al (2021) How biochar works, and when it doesn’t: a review of mechanisms controlling soil and plant responses to biochar. GCB Bioenergy 13:1731–1764. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ gcbb.  128852471 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Juárez A (2020) Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. In: Mining, materials, and the sus-tainable development goals (SDGs). CRC Press, pp 51–60Jung K-W et al (2017) Adsorption of phosphate from aqueous solu -tion using electrochemically modified biochar calcium-alginate beads: Batch and fixed-bed column performance. Biores Technol 244:23–32. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 07. 133Kalderis D et al (2017) Adsorption of 2,4-dichlorophenol on paper sludge/wheat husk biochar: process optimization and compari-son with biochars prepared from wood chips, sewage sludge and hog fuel/demolition waste. J Environ Chem Eng 5:2222–2231. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jece. 2017. 04. 039Kalus K et al (2019) A review of biochar properties and their utilization in crop agriculture and livestock production. Appl Sci 9:3494. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ app91 73494Kalus K et al (2020a) Laying hens biochar diet supplementation—effect on performance, excreta N content, NH3 and VOCs emis-sions, egg traits and egg consumers acceptance. Agriculture 10:237. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ agric ultur  e1006 0237Kalus K et al (2020b) Effect of biochar diet supplementation on chicken broilers performance, NH3 and odor emissions and meat con -sumer acceptance. Animals 10:1539. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  ani10 091539Kamali M, Costa ME, Capela I (2017) Nitrate removal and nitrogen sequestration from polluted waters using zero-valent iron nano-particles synthesized under ultrasonic irradiation. Adv Mater Wastewater TreatKamali M et al (2021) Biochar in water and wastewater treatment—a sustainability assessment. Chem Eng J. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cej. 2021. 129946Kamau S et al (2019) Short-term influence of biochar and fertilizer-bio-char blends on soil nutrients, fauna and maize growth. Biol Fertil Soils 55:661–673. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00374- 019- 01381-8Kammann CI et al (2015) Plant growth improvement mediated by nitrate capture in co-composted biochar. Sci Rep 5:1–13. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1038/ srep1 1080Kammann C et al (2017) Biochar as a tool to reduce the agricultural greenhouse-gas burden–knowns, unknowns and future research needs. J Environ Eng Landsc Manag 25:114–139. https:// doi. org/  10. 3846/ 16486 897. 2017. 13193 75Kang S et al (2018) Effect of biochar particle size on hydrophobic organic compound sorption kinetics: applicability of using rep-resentative size. Sci Total Environ 619–620:410–418. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 11. 129Kanjanarong J et al (2017) Removal of hydrogen sulfide generated during anaerobic treatment of sulfate-laden wastewater using bio-char: evaluation of efficiency and mechanisms. Bioresour Tech-nol 234:115–121. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017.  03. 009Kanwal S et al (2017) Application of biochar in mitigation of nega-tive effects of salinity stress in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). J Plant Nutr 41:526–538. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 01904 167. 2017.  13925 68Kapoor R et al (2020) Advances in biogas valorization and utiliza -tion systems: a comprehensive review. J Clean Prod 273:123052. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020. 123052Karer J et al (2018) Immobilisation of metals in a contaminated soil with biochar-compost mixtures and inorganic additives: 2-year greenhouse and field experiments. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 25:2506–2516. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 017- 0670-2Karhu K et al (2011) Biochar addition to agricultural soil increased CH4 uptake and water holding capacity—results from a short-term pilot field study. Agric Ecosyst Environ 140:309–313. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. agee. 2010. 12. 005Karimifard S, Alavi Moghaddam MR (2018) Application of response surface methodology in physicochemical removal of dyes from wastewater: a critical review. Sci Total Environ 640–641:772–797. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018. 05.  355Karnan M et al (2017) Electrochemical studies on corncob derived acti -vated porous carbon for supercapacitors application in aqueous and non-aqueous electrolytes. Electrochim Acta 228:586–596. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. elect  acta. 2017. 01. 095Katiyar R et al (2021) Adsorption of copper (II) in aqueous solution using biochars derived from Ascophyllum nodosum seaweed. Biores Technol 328:124829. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech.  2021. 124829Kaur G et al (2020) Enhanced volatile fatty acid degradation and methane production efficiency by biochar addition in food waste-sludge co-digestion: a step towards increased organic loading efficiency in co-digestion. Biores Technol 308:123250. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123250Kavitha B et al (2018) Benefits and limitations of biochar amendment in agricultural soils: a review. J Environ Manag 227:146–154. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2018. 08. 082Kelm MAP et al (2019) Removal of azo dye from water via adsorp-tion on biochar produced by the gasification of wood wastes. Environ Sci Pollut Res 26:28558–28573. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 018- 3833-xKeshavarz Afshar R et al (2016) Biochar application and drought stress effects on physiological characteristics of Silybum marianum. Commun Soil Sci 47:743–752. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 00103  624. 2016. 11467 52Khalil A et al (2018) Removal of ammonium from fish farms by bio-char obtained from rice straw: Isotherm and kinetic studies for ammonium adsorption. Adsorpt Sci Technol 36:1294–1309. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 02636 17418 768944Khan N et al (2014) Maturity indices in co-composting of chicken manure and sawdust with biochar. Biores Technol 168:245–251. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2014. 02. 123Khan N et al (2016) Physical and chemical properties of biochars co-composted with biowastes and incubated with a chicken litter compost. Chemosphere 142:14–23. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  chemo sphere. 2015. 05. 065Khan TA et al (2017) Uptake of  Cu2+ and  Zn2+ from simulated waste -water using muskmelon peel biochar: Isotherm and kinetic stud-ies. Egypt J Basic Appl Sci 4:236–248. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  ejbas. 2017. 06. 006Khan ZH et al (2020a) Mechanisms for cadmium adsorption by mag-netic biochar composites in an aqueous solution. Chemosphere 246:125701. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2019. 125701Khan AZ et al (2020b) Popular wood and sugarcane bagasse biochars reduced uptake of chromium and lead by lettuce from mine-contaminated soil. Environ Pollut 263:114446. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. envpol. 2020. 114446Khan A et al (2020c) Hierarchically porous biomass carbon derived from natural withered rose flowers as high-performance mate-rial for advanced supercapacitors. Batter Supercaps 3:731–737. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ batt. 20200 0046Khan HA et al (2021a) A performance evaluation study of nano-bio-char as a potential slow-release nano-fertilizer from wheat straw residue for sustainable agriculture. Chemosphere 285:131382. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2021. 131382Khan S et al (2021b) Multiple effects of different nickel concentrations on the stability of anaerobic digestion of molasses. Sustainability 13:4971. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ su130 94971Khan MT et al (2021c) Anaerobic degradation of individual compo-nents from 5-hydroxymethylfurfural process-wastewater in con-tinuously operated fixed bed reactors. Processes 9:677. https://  doi. org/ 10. 3390/ pr904 0677Khiari Z et al (2020) Integration of biochar filtration into aquaponics: effects on particle size distribution and turbidity removal. Agric 2472 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Water Manag 229:105874. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. agwat. 2019.  105874Khoa M et al (2018) Effect of tannin in green tea by-product in com-bination with bio-char supplemented into basal beef cattle diet on nutrient digestibility, methane production and animal per -formance. Open J Anim Sci 8:206–214. https:// doi. org/ 10. 4236/  ojas. 2018. 83015Khorram MS et al (2017) Effects of aging process on adsorption-des-orption and bioavailability of fomesafen in an agricultural soil amended with rice hull biochar. J Environ Sci (china) 56:180–191. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2016. 09. 012Kim JR, Karthikeyan KG (2021) Effects of severe pretreatment con-ditions and lignocellulose-derived furan byproducts on anaero-bic digestion of dairy manure. Bioresour Technol 340:125632. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 125632Kinidi L et al (2018) Recent development in ammonia stripping process for industrial wastewater treatment. Int J Chem Eng 2018:1–14. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1155/ 2018/ 31810 87Kloss S et al (2014) Trace element concentrations in leachates and mustard plant tissue (Sinapis alba L.) after biochar application to temperate soils. Sci Total Environ 481:498–508. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2014. 02. 093Klupfel L et al (2014) Redox properties of plant biomass-derived black carbon (biochar). Environ Sci Technol 48:5601–5611. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1021/ es500 906dKnoblauch C et al (2021) Impact of biochar on nutrient supply, crop yield and microbial respiration on sandy soils of northern Ger -many. Eur J Soil Sci. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ ejss. 13088Kogo BK et al (2021) Climate change and variability in Kenya: a review of impacts on agriculture and food security. Environ Dev Sustain Vol 23:23–43. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10668- 020- 00589-1Kostić MD et al (2016) Optimization and kinetics of sunflower oil methanolysis catalyzed by calcium oxide-based catalyst derived from palm kernel shell biochar. Fuel 163:304–313. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. fuel. 2015. 09. 042Krasucka P et al (2021) Engineered biochar—a sustainable solution for the removal of antibiotics from water. Chem Eng J 405:126926. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej. 2020. 126926Kulczycki G et al (2020) The effect of various types of biochar mixed with mineral fertilization on the development and ionome of win-ter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seedlings and soil properties in a pot experiment. Agronomy 10:1903. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  agron omy10 121903Kumar A et al (2018) Evaluation of bio-asphalt binders modified with biochar: a pyrolysis by-product of Mesua ferrea seed cover waste. Cogent Eng 5:1548534. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 23311 916. 2018. 15485 34Kumar A et al (2021a) Fertilizing behavior of extract of organomineral-activated biochar: low-dose foliar application for promoting let-tuce growth. Chem Biol Technol Agric 8:1–15. https:// doi. org/  10. 1186/ s40538- 021- 00222-xKumar A et al (2021b) Biochar as environmental armour and its diverse role towards protecting soil, water and air. Sci Total Environ. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2021. 150444Kumar M et al (2021c) A critical review on biochar for enhancing biogas production from anaerobic digestion of food waste and sludge. J Clean Prod 305:127143. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep  ro. 2021. 127143Kumar AN et al (2021ad) Recent trends in biochar integration with anaerobic fermentation: win–win strategies in a closed-loop. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 149:111371. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. rser. 2021. 111371Kwak JH et al (2019) Biochar properties and lead(II) adsorption capac-ity depend on feedstock type, pyrolysis temperature, and steam activation. Chemosphere 231:393–404. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  chemo sphere. 2019. 05. 128Lakshmi D et al (2021) Artificial intelligence (AI) applications in adsorption of heavy metals using modified biochar. Sci Total Environ 801:149623. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv.  2021.  149623Lan TT et al (2016) Feeding biochar or charcoal increased the growth rate of striped catfish (Pangasius hypophthalmus) and improved water quality. Livestock Res Rural Dev 28:84. http:// www. lrrd.  org/ lrrd28/ 5/ lan28 084. htmlLarney FJ et al (2006) The role of composting in recycling manure nutrients. Can J Soil Sci 86:597–611. https:// doi. org/ 10. 4141/  s05- 116Lashari MS et al (2013) Effects of amendment of biochar-manure com-post in conjunction with pyroligneous solution on soil quality and wheat yield of a salt-stressed cropland from Central China Great Plain. Field Crop Res 144:113–118. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. fcr.  2012. 11. 015Lateef A et al (2019) Synthesis and characterization of environmen-tal friendly corncob biochar based nano-composite—a potential slow release nano-fertilizer for sustainable agriculture. Environ Nanotechnol Monit Manag 11:100212. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  enmm. 2019. 100212Leng R (2018) Unravelling methanogenesis in ruminants, horses and kangaroos: the links between gut anatomy, microbial biofilms and host immunity. Anim Prod Sci 58:1175–1191. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1071/ AN157 10Leng R et al (2012a) Biochar reduces enteric methane and improves growth and feed conversion in local “Yellow” cattle fed cassava root chips and fresh cassava foliage. Livestock Res Rural Dev 24. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd24/ 11/ leng2 4199. htmLeng R et al (2012b) Biochar lowers net methane production from rumen fluid in vitro. Livestock Res Rural Dev 24:103. http://  www. lrrd. org/ lrrd24/ 6/ sang2 4103. htmLenin Sundar M et al (2021) Comparative adsorptive removal of reac-tive red 120 using RSM and ANFIS models in batch and packed bed column. Biomass Convers Biorefinery. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s13399- 021- 01444-7Lesbani A et al (2021) High reusability of NiAl LDH/biochar compos -ite in the removal methylene blue from aqueous solution. Indones J Chem. https:// doi. org/ 10. 22146/ ijc. 56955Levio-Raiman M et al (2021) Performance of an optimized fixed-bed column packed with an organic biomixture to remove atrazine from aqueous solution. Environ Technol Innov. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. eti. 2020. 101263Li Y et al (2014) Characterization of modified biochars derived from bamboo pyrolysis and their utilization for target component (fur -fural) adsorption. Energy Fuels 28:5119–5127. https:// doi. org/  10. 1021/ ef500 725cLi R et al (2015) Nutrient transformation during aerobic composting of pig manure with biochar prepared at different temperatures. Environ Technol 36:815–826. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 09593 330.  2014. 963692Li S et al (2016) Linking  N2O emission from biochar-amended com-posting process to the abundance of denitrify (nirK and nosZ) bacteria community. AMB Express 6:1–9. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1186/ s13568- 016- 0208-xLi Y et al (2017a) High-calorific biogas production from anaerobic digestion of food waste using a two-phase pressurized biofilm (TPPB) system. Bioresour Technol 224:56–62. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 10. 070Li S et al (2017b) Carbonized cellulose paper as an effective interlayer in lithium-sulfur batteries. Appl Surf Sci 396:637–643. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsusc. 2016. 10. 208Li H et al (2018a) Distribution and transformation of lead in rice plants grown in contaminated soil amended with biochar and lime. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 165:589–596. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  ecoenv. 2018. 09. 0392473 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Li Z et al (2018b) Zeolite-supported nanoscale zero-valent iron: New findings on simultaneous adsorption of Cd(II), Pb(II), and As(III) in aqueous solution and soil. J Hazard Mater 344:1–11. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2017. 09. 036Li S et al (2018c) Highly filled biochar/ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene/linear low density polyethylene composites for high-performance electromagnetic interference shielding. Com-pos B Eng 153:277–284. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. compo sitesb.  2018. 07. 049Li Y et al (2019a) Effects of biochar-based fertilizers on nutrient leach-ing in a tobacco-planting soil. Acta Geochimica 38:1–7. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11631- 018- 0307-2Li S et al (2019b) Predicting biochar properties and functions based on feedstock and pyrolysis temperature: a review and data synthe-ses. J Clean Prod 215:890–902. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jclep  ro. 2019. 01. 106Li J et al (2019c) Effect of manganese oxide-modified biochar addition on methane production and heavy metal speciation during the anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge. J Environ Sci 76:267–277. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2018. 05. 009Li L et al (2019d) Biochar as a sorbent for emerging contaminants enables improvements in waste management and sustainable resource use. J Clean Prod 210:1324–1342. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jclep ro. 2018. 11. 087Li X et al (2019e) The transport properties of sodium-ion in the low potential platform region of oatmeal-derived hard carbon for sodium-ion batteries. J Alloy Compd 787:229–238. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2019. 02. 077Li X et al (2020a) Biochar increases soil microbial biomass but has variable effects on microbial diversity: a meta-analysis. Sci Total Environ 749:141593. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv.  2020.  141593Li Q et al (2020b) Kinetic and thermodynamic effects of temperature on methanogenic degradation of acetate, propionate, butyrate and valerate. Chem Eng J 396:125366. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cej. 2020. 125366Li L et al (2020c) Effect of microplastic on anaerobic digestion of wasted activated sludge. Chemosphere 247:125874. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2020. 125874Li J et al (2020d) Investigation into lanthanum-coated biochar obtained from urban dewatered sewage sludge for enhanced phosphate adsorption. Sci Total Environ 714:136839. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 136839Li Y et al (2020e) Solvent-free synthesis of magnetic biochar and acti-vated carbon through ball-mill extrusion with Fe3O4 nanoparti-cles for enhancing adsorption of methylene blue. Sci Total Envi-ron 722:137972. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 137972Li Y et al (2020f) Hierarchical porous biochar derived from coti-nus coggygria flower by using a novel composite activator for supercapacitors. Chem Phys Lett 747:137325. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. cplett. 2020. 137325Li D et al (2020g)  MnO2 nanosheets grown on N-doped agaric-derived three-dimensional porous carbon for asymmetric supercapaci-tors. J Alloy Compd 815:152344. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc  om. 2019. 152344Li Y et al (2020h) Biomass-derived microporous carbon with large micropore size for high-performance supercapacitors. J Power Sources 448:227396. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2019.  227396Li L et al (2021) Enhancing biomethane production and pyrene bio-degradation by addition of bio-nano FeS or magnetic carbon dur -ing sludge anaerobic digestion. Environ Technol 42:3496–3507. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 09593 330. 2020. 17336 74Lian X et al (2018) The electrochemical properties of porous carbon derived from the prawn as anode for lithium ion batteries. Int J Electrochem Sci 13:2474–2482. https:// doi. org/ 10. 20964/ 2018.  03. 33Liang F et al (2014) Crop yield and soil properties in the first 3 years after biochar application to a calcareous soil. J Integr Agric 13:525–532. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ s2095- 3119(13) 60708-xLiang J et al (2020) Responses of enzymatic activity and microbial communities to biochar/compost amendment in sulfamethoxa-zole polluted wetland soil. J Hazard Mater 385:121533. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2019. 121533Liao J et al (2020) Effects of biochar-based controlled release nitro-gen fertilizer on nitrogen-use efficiency of oilseed rape (Bras-sica napus L.). Sci Rep 10:1–14. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/  s41598- 020- 67528-yLim EY et al (2020) Methanogenic pathway and microbial succes-sion during start-up and stabilization of thermophilic food waste anaerobic digestion with biochar. Biores Technol 314:123751. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123751Lin C-Y, Chen C-C (1999) Effect of heavy metals on the methanogenic UASB granule. Water Res 33(409–416):10. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/ S0043- 1354(98) 00211-5Linhoss JE et al (2019) Evaluation of biochar as a litter amendment for commercial broiler production. J Appl Poultry Res 28:1089–1098. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3382/ japr/ pfz071Linville JL et al (2017) In-situ biogas upgrading during anaerobic digestion of food waste amended with walnut shell biochar at bench scale. Waste Manage Res 35:669–679. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1177/ 07342 42X17 704716Liu Z et  al (2017a) Biochar particle size, shape, and porosity act together to influence soil water properties. PLoS ONE 12:e0179079. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journ al. pone. 01790 79Liu N et al (2017b) Role and multi-scale characterization of bamboo biochar during poultry manure aerobic composting. Biores Tech-nol 241:190–199. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017.  03. 144Liu G et al (2018a) Formation and physicochemical characteristics of nano biochar: insight into chemical and colloidal stability. Environ Sci Technol 52:10369–10379. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/  acs. est. 8b014 81Liu H et al (2018b) Effect of modified coconut shell biochar on avail-ability of heavy metals and biochemical characteristics of soil in multiple heavy metals contaminated soil. Sci Total Environ 645:702–709. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018. 07. 115Liu C et al (2019a) Impact of application of biochar-based fertilizer on the content of phosphorus and potassium in soil. In: IOP con-ference series: earth and environmental science, vol 252. IOP Publishing, pp 052064. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1088/ 1755- 1315/ 252/5/  052064Liu X et al (2019b) A biochar-based route for environmentally friendly controlled release of nitrogen: urea-loaded biochar and bentonite composite. Sci Rep 9:1–12. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/  s41598- 019- 46065-3Liu F et al (2019c) Nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur co-doped hierarchi-cal porous carbons toward high-performance supercapacitors by direct pyrolysis of kraft lignin. Carbon 149:105–116. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. carbon. 2019. 04. 023Liu D et al (2019d) Effect of removing silica in rice husk for the prepa-ration of activated carbon for supercapacitor applications. Chin Chem Lett 30:1315–1319. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cclet. 2019.  02. 031Liu C et al (2020a) Preparation of acid-and alkali-modified biochar for removal of Methylene Blue pigment. ACS Omega 5:30906–30922. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acsom ega. 0c036 88Liu N et al (2020b) Adsorption of 17β-estradiol from aqueous solution by raw and direct/pre/post-KOH treated lotus seedpod biochar. J Environ Sci 87:10–23. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2019. 05. 026Liu X et al (2020c) Pyrolytic production of zerovalent iron nanopar -ticles supported on rice husk-derived biochar: simple, in situ 2474 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3synthesis and use for remediation of Cr(VI)-polluted soils. Sci Total Environ 708:134479. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv.  2019. 134479Liu H et al (2021a) Distribution of heavy metal resistant bacterial community succession in cow manure biochar amended sheep manure compost. Bioresour Technol 335:125282. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 125282Liu Y et al (2021b) Inhibition of tetracycline on anaerobic digestion of swine wastewater. Bioresour Technol 334:125253. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 125253Lonappan L et al (2016) Adsorption of methylene blue on biochar microparticles derived from different waste materials. Waste Manag 49:537–544. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2016. 01.  015López-Cano I et al (2016) Biochar improves N cycling during com-posting of olive mill wastes and sheep manure. Waste Manag 49:553–559. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2015. 12. 031Lovley DRJE, Science E (2011) Live wires: direct extracellular electron exchange for bioenergy and the bioremediation of energy-related contamination. Energy Environ Sci 4:4896–4906. https:// doi. org/  10. 1039/ C1EE0 2229FLu H et al (2015) Changes in soil microbial community structure and enzyme activity with amendment of biochar-manure compost and pyroligneous solution in a saline soil from Central China. Eur J Soil Biol 70:67–76. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ejsobi. 2015. 07. 005Lü F et al (2016) Biochar alleviates combined stress of ammonium and acids by firstly enriching Methanosaeta and then Methano-sarcina. Water Res 90:34–43. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  watres.  2015. 12. 029Lü F et al (2018) Loop bioenergy production and carbon sequestration of polymeric waste by integrating biochemical and thermochemi-cal conversion processes: a conceptual framework and recent advances. Renew Energy 124:202–211. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  renene. 2017. 10. 084Lu Q et al (2020) Mesopore-rich carbon flakes derived from lotus leaves and it’s ultrahigh performance for supercapacitors. Elec-trochim Acta 333:135481. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. elect  acta.  2019. 135481Luo J et al (2019) In-built template synthesis of hierarchical porous carbon microcubes from biomass toward electrochemical energy storage. Carbon 155:1–8. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. carbon. 2019.  08. 044Luo J et al (2020) Potential influences of exogenous pollutants occurred in waste activated sludge on anaerobic digestion: a review. J Haz-ard Mater 383:121176. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2019.  121176Luo Z et al (2022) Novel insights into the adsorption of organic con-taminants by biochar: a review. Chemosphere 287:132113. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2021. 132113Lustosa Filho J et al (2017) Co-pyrolysis of poultry litter and phosphate and magnesium generates alternative slow-release fertilizer suit-able for tropical soils. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 5(10):9043–9052. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 7b019 35Lustosa Filho JF et al (2020) Aging of biochar-based fertilizers in soil: effects on phosphorus pools and availability to Urochloa bri-zantha grass. Sci Total Environ 709:136028. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 136028Lyu H et al (2018a) Effects of ball milling on the physicochemical and sorptive properties of biochar: experimental observations and governing mechanisms. Environ Pollut 233:54–63. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol. 2017. 10. 037Lyu L et al (2018b) Yeast-derived N-doped carbon microsphere/poly -aniline composites as high performance pseudocapacitive elec-trodes. Electrochim Acta 291:256–266. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  elect  acta. 2018. 08. 111Lyu H et al (2019) Ball-milled biochar for alternative carbon electrode. Environ Sci Pollut Res 26:14693–14702. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 019- 04899-4Ma Y et al (2014) Polyethylenimine modified biochar adsorbent for hexavalent chromium removal from the aqueous solution. Biores Technol 169:403–408. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2014.  07. 014Ma H et al (2020) The role of rice husk biochar addition in anaero-bic digestion for sweet sorghum under high loading condition. Biotechnol Rep 27:e00515. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. btre. 2020.  e00515Ma Q et al (2021) One-step synthesis of microporous nitrogen-doped biochar for efficient removal of  CO2 and  H2S. Fuel 289:119932. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. fuel. 2020. 119932Mabe LT et al (2018) The effect of dietary bamboo charcoal supple-mentation on growth and serum biochemical parameters of juve-nile common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). Aquac Res 49:1142–1152. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ are. 13564Machado LM et al (2020) Treatment of effluents containing 2-chloro-phenol by adsorption onto chemically and physically activated biochars. J Environ Chem Eng 8:104473. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jece. 2020. 104473Mahari WAW et al (2022) A state-of-the-art review on producing engi-neered biochar from shellfish waste and its application in aqua-culture wastewater treatment. Chemosphere 288:132559. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2021. 132559Mahdi Z et al (2018) Competitive adsorption of heavy metal ions  (Pb2+,  Cu2+, and  Ni2+) onto date seed biochar: batch and fixed bed experiments. Sep Sci Technol 54:888–901. https:// doi. org/  10. 1080/ 01496 395. 2018. 15231 92Mahmoud ME et al (2020) Adsorption of negatively charged food tar -trazine and sunset yellow dyes onto positively charged triethyl-enetetramine biochar: optimization, kinetics and thermodynamic study. J Mol Liq 318:114297. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. molliq.  2020. 114297Mahmoud ME et al (2021) Self-decoration of N-doped graphene oxide 3-D hydrogel onto magnetic shrimp shell biochar for enhanced removal of hexavalent chromium. J Hazard Mater 408:124951. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020. 124951Maienza A et al (2017) Biochar improves the fertility of a Mediter -ranean vineyard without toxic impact on the microbial com-munity. Agron Sustain Dev 37:1–9. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13593- 017- 0458-2Major J et al (2010) Maize yield and nutrition during 4 years after biochar application to a Colombian savanna oxisol. Plant Soil 333:117–128. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11104- 010- 0327-0Malińska K et al (2014) Effects of biochar amendment on ammonia emission during composting of sewage sludge. Ecol Eng 71:474–478. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecole ng. 2014. 07. 012Man KY et al (2021) Use of biochar as feed supplements for animal farming. Crit Rev Environ Sci Technol 51:187–217. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1080/ 10643 389. 2020. 17219 80Mandal A et al (2017) Characterization of pesticide sorption behaviour of slow pyrolysis biochars as low cost adsorbent for atrazine and imidacloprid removal. Sci Total Environ 577:376–385. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2016. 10. 204Manolikaki I, Diamadopoulos E (2017) Ryegrass yield and nutrient status after biochar application in two Mediterranean soils. Arch Agron Soil Sci 63:1093–1107. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 03650 340.  2016. 12673 41Manyà JJ et al (2018) Biochar production through slow pyrolysis of different biomass materials: seeking the best operating condi-tions. Biomass Bioenerg 117:115–123. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biomb ioe. 2018. 07. 0192475 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Mao C et al (2015) Review on research achievements of biogas from anaerobic digestion. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 45:540–555. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2015. 02. 032Mao H et al (2018) Improvement of biochar and bacterial powder addi-tion on gaseous emission and bacterial community in pig manure compost. Biores Technol 258:195–202. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2018. 02. 082Mao Y et al (2020) Pretreatment of municipal solid waste incineration fly ash and preparation of solid waste source sulphoaluminate cementitious material. J Hazard Mater 385:121580. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2019. 121580Maraseni TN (2010) Biochar: maximising the benefits. Int J Environ Stud 67:319–327. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 00207 23100 36122 25Marcato CE et al (2009) Bioavailability of Cu and Zn in raw and anaer -obically digested pig slurry. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 72:1538–1544. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecoenv. 2008. 12. 010Matsuda M (2018). Zeolite membrane. Nanoparticle technology hand-book. Elsevier, pp 539–542Mazur LP et al (2018) Brown marine macroalgae as natural cation exchangers for toxic metal removal from industrial wastewaters: a review. J Environ Manag 223:215–253. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jenvm an. 2018. 05. 086McAvoy DJ et al (2020) Use of biochar by sheep: impacts on diet selec-tion, digestibility, and performance. J Anim Sci. https:// doi. org/  10. 1093/ jas/ skaa3 80Medeiros D et al (2022) Pristine and engineered biochar for the removal of contaminants co-existing in several types of industrial waste-waters: a critical review. Sci Total Environ 809:151120. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2021. 151120Medyńska-Juraszek A et al (2021) Biochar improves maize growth but has a limited effect on soil properties: evidence from a three-year field experiment. Sustainability 13:3617. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  su130 73617Meng X et al (2020) O/N-co-doped hierarchically porous carbon from carboxymethyl cellulose ammonium for high-performance super -capacitors. J Mater Sci 55:7417–7431. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s10853- 020- 04515-8Mikos-Szymańska M et al (2019) Preliminary study of a method for obtaining Brown coal and biochar based granular compound fer -tilizer. Waste Biomass Valorization 10:3673–3685. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1007/ s12649- 019- 00655-4Miltner M et al (2017) Review on available biogas upgrading technolo-gies and innovations towards advanced solutions. J Clean Prod 161:1329–1337. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2017. 06. 045Mirheidari A et al (2019) Effects of walnut shell and chicken manure biochar on in vitro fermentation and in vivo nutrient digest-ibility and performance of dairy ewes. Trop Anim Health Prod 51:2153–2160. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11250- 019- 01909-yMirheidari A et al (2020) Effects of biochar produced from different biomass sources on digestibility, ruminal fermentation, microbial protein synthesis and growth performance of male lambs. Small Rumin Res 183:106042. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. small rumres.  2019. 106042Moe T et al (2009) Effects of dietary bamboo charcoal on growth parameters and nutrient utilization of tiger puffer fish, Takifugu rubripes. Aquac Sci 57:53–60. https:// doi. org/ 10. 11233/ aquac  ultur  esci. 57. 53Mojiri A et al (2019) Cross-linked magnetic chitosan/activated biochar for removal of emerging micropollutants from water: optimiza-tion by the artificial neural network. Water 11:551. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 3390/ w1103 0551Monisha RS et al (2021) Green remediation of pharmaceutical wastes using biochar: a review. Environ Chem Lett 20:681–704. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10311- 021- 01348-yMu J et al (2019) Characterization of hierarchical porous carbons made from bean curd via K2CO3 activation as a supercapacitor electrode. ChemElectroChem 6:4022–4030. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1002/ celc. 20190 0962Murad HA et al (2022) A remediation approach to chromium-con-taminated water and soil using engineered biochar derived from peanut shell. Environ Res 204:112125. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  envres. 2021. 112125Murali G et al (2019) Hierarchically porous structured carbon derived from peanut shell as an enhanced high rate anode for lithium ion batteries. Appl Surf Sci 492:464–472. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  apsusc. 2019. 06. 142Murtaza G et al (2021) Biochar induced modifications in soil proper -ties and its impacts on crop growth and production. J Plant Nutr 44:1677–1691. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 01904 167. 2021. 18717 46Naeem MA et al (2018) Combined application of biochar with compost and fertilizer improves soil properties and grain yield of maize. J Plant Nutr 41:112–122. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 01904 167. 2017.  13817 34Nag S et al (2018) Sustainable bioremediation of Cd(II) from aqueous solution using natural waste materials: Kinetics, equilibrium, thermodynamics, toxicity studies and GA-ANN hybrid mod-elling. Environ Technol Innov 11:83–104. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. eti. 2018. 04. 009Naiya TK et al (2009) Clarified sludge (basic oxygen furnace sludge)—an adsorbent for removal of Pb(II) from aqueous solutions–kinet-ics, thermodynamics and desorption studies. J Hazard Mater 170:252–262. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2009. 04. 103Najmudeen TM et al (2019) Characterisation of biochar from water hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes and the effects of biochar on the growth of fish and paddy in integrated culture systems. J Coastal Res 86:225–234. https:// doi. org/ 10. 2112/ SI86- 033.1Ndoung OCN et al (2021) A scoping review on biochar-based fertiliz-ers: enrichment techniques and agro-environmental application. Heliyon 7:e08473. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. heliy  on. 2021. e08473Nguyen TT et al (2021) Development of biochars derived from water bamboo (Zizania latifolia) shoot husks using pyrolysis and ultrasound-assisted pyrolysis for the treatment of reactive black 5 (RB5) in wastewater. Water 13:1615. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  w1312 1615Ni BJ et al (2020a) Impact of roxithromycin on waste activated sludge anaerobic digestion: methane production, carbon transformation and antibiotic resistance genes. Sci Total Environ 703:134899. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 134899Ni N et al (2020b) The role of biochar in reducing the bioavailabil -ity and migration of persistent organic pollutants in soil-plant systems: a review. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol 104:157–165. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00128- 019- 02779-8Nirosha B et al (2020) Elaeocarpus tectorius derived phosphorus-doped carbon as an electrode material for an asymmetric supercapacitor. New J Chem 44:181–193. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c9nj0 4813hNithya K et al (2020) Packed bed column optimization and modeling studies for removal of chromium ions using chemically modi-fied Lantana camara adsorbent. J Water Process Eng 33:101069. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jwpe. 2019. 101069Niu Y et al (2017) Yield-scaled  N2O emissions were effectively reduced by biochar amendment of sandy loam soil under maize-wheat rotation in the North China Plain. Atmos Environ 170:58–70. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. atmos env. 2017. 09. 050Nzediegwu C et al (2021) Fuel, thermal and surface properties of microwave-pyrolyzed biochars depend on feedstock type and pyrolysis temperature. Biores Technol 320:124282. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 124282O’Toole A et al (2016) Current and future applications for biochar. Bio-char in European Soils and Agriculture. Routledge, pp 275–302. https:// doi. org/ 10. 4324/ 97813 15884 4622476 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Oelbermann M et al (2020) Biochar and its use in soil: lessons from temperate agriculture. World J Agric Soil Sci 5:1–9. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 33552/ WJASS. 2020. 05. 000610Oh S-Y, Seo Y-D (2016) Sorption of halogenated phenols and phar -maceuticals to biochar: affecting factors and mechanisms. Environ Sci Pollut Res 23:951–961. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 015- 4201-8Okonkwo CA et al (2020) The synthesis of micromesoporous carbon derived from nitrogen-rich spirulina extract impregnated castor shell based on biomass self-doping for highly efficient superca-pacitor electrodes. J Alloy Compd 825:154009. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2020. 154009Oldfield TL et al (2018) Biochar, compost and biochar-compost blend as options to recover nutrients and sequester carbon. J Environ Manag 218:465–476. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2018.  04. 061Oleszczuk P, Kołtowski MJEP (2018) Changes of total and freely dis-solved polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and toxicity of biochars treated with various aging processes. Environ Pollut 237:65–73. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol. 2018. 01. 073Oleszczuk P et al (2016) Characterization of nanoparticles of biochars from different biomass. J Anal Appl Pyrol 121:165–172. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jaap. 2016. 07. 017Oni BA et al (2019) Significance of biochar application to the environ-ment and economy. Ann Agric Sci 64:222–236. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. aoas. 2019. 12. 006Onwosi CO et al (2017) Composting technology in waste stabiliza -tion: on the methods, challenges and future prospects. J Environ Manag 190:140–157. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2016.  12. 051Osman AI et al (2020) Recent advances in carbon capture storage and utilisation technologies: a review. Environ Chem Lett. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1007/ s10311- 020- 01133-3Ouyang W et al (2017) Watershed soil Cd loss after long-term agricul-tural practice and biochar amendment under four rainfall levels. Water Res 122:692–700. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. watres. 2017.  06. 084Packiyalakshmi P et al (2019) Domestic food waste derived porous carbon for energy storage applications. ChemistrySelect 4:8007–8014. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ slct. 20190 0818Paiva H et al (2019) Mine tailings geopolymers as a waste management solution for a more sustainable habitat. Sustainability 11:995. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ su110 40995Pan J et al (2019) Effects of different types of biochar on the anaero-bic digestion of chicken manure. Biores Technol 275:258–265. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018. 12. 068Panahi HKS et al (2020) A comprehensive review of engineered bio-char: production, characteristics, and environmental applications. J Clean Prod 270:122462. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020.  122462Pandey D et al (2020) Biochar: production, properties and emerg-ing role as a support for enzyme immobilization. J Clean Prod 255:120267. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020. 120267Pandit NR et al (2019) Nutrient effect of various composting methods with and without biochar on soil fertility and maize growth. Arch Agron Soil Sci. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 03650 340. 2019. 16101 68Park J-H et al (2019) Adsorption/desorption behavior of cationic and anionic dyes by biochars prepared at normal and high pyroly -sis temperatures. Colloids Surf A Physicochem Eng Aspects 572:274–282. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. colsu rfa. 2019. 04. 029Patel H (2021) Comparison of batch and fixed bed column adsorption: a critical review. Int J Environ Sci Technol. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s13762- 021- 03492-yPavelic S et al (2018) Critical review on zeolite clinoptilolite safety and medical applications in vivo. Front Pharmacol 9:1350. https://  doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fphar. 2018. 01350Peiris C et al (2019) The influence of three acid modifications on the physicochemical characteristics of tea-waste biochar pyrolyzed at different temperatures: a comparative study. RSC Adv 9:17612–17622. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ C9RA0 2729GPelaez-Samaniego MR et al (2018) Charcoal from anaerobically digested dairy fiber for removal of hydrogen sulfide within biogas. Waste Manag 76:374–382. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  wasman. 2018. 03. 011Peng Z et al (2018a) UV modification of biochar for enhanced hexavalent chromium removal from aqueous solution. Envi-ron Sci Pollut Res 25:10808–10819. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 018- 1353-3Peng L et al (2018b) Bioinspired highly crumpled porous carbons with multidirectional porosity for high rate performance electrochemi -cal supercapacitors. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 6:12716–12726. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 8b018 39Peng L et al (2019) Mixed-biomass wastes derived hierarchically porous carbons for high-performance electrochemical energy storage. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 7:10393–10402. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 9b004 77Penido ES et al (2019) Combining biochar and sewage sludge for immobilization of heavy metals in mining soils. Ecotoxicol Envi-ron Saf 172:326–333. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecoenv. 2019. 01.  110Pereira RC et al (2014) Assessment of the influence of biochar on rumen and silage fermentation: a laboratory-scale experiment. Anim Feed Sci Technol 196:22–31. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  anife edsci. 2014. 06. 019Petersson A, Wellinger A (2009) Biogas upgrading technologies–devel-opments and innovations. In: Bioenergy I (ed) vol 20, pp 1–19. https:// www. ieabi oener  gy. com/ wp- conte nt/ uploa ds/ 2009/ 10/  upgra ding_ rz_ low_ final. pdfPhongpanith S et al (2013) Effect on feed intake, digestibility and N balance in goats of supplementing a basal diet of Muntin-gia foliage with biochar and water spinach (Ipomoea aquatica). Livestock Res Rural Dev 25. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd25/ 2/ seng2  5035. htmPhongphanith S, Preston T (2018) Effect of rice-wine distillers’ byproduct and biochar on growth performance and methane emissions in local “Yellow” cattle fed ensiled cassava root, urea, cassava foliage and rice straw. Livestock Res Rural Dev 28:178. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd28/ 10/ seng2 8178. htmlPobeheim H et al (2010) Influence of trace elements on methane forma-tion from a synthetic model substrate for maize silage. Bioresour Technol 101:836–839. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2009.  08. 076Poirier S et al (2017) Improving anaerobic digestion with support media: mitigation of ammonia inhibition and effect on microbial communities. Biores Technol 235:229–239. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 03. 099Pokharel A et al (2020a) Biochar-assisted wastewater treatment and waste valorization. IntechOpen. https:// doi. org/ 10. 5772/ intec  hopen. 92288Pokharel P et al (2020b) Biochar increases soil microbial biomass with changes in extra- and intracellular enzyme activities: a global meta-analysis. Biochar 2:65–79. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s42773- 020- 00039-1Pradhan S et al (2020) Optimization of process and properties of biochar from cabbage waste by response surface methodol-ogy. Biomass Convers Biorefinery. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13399- 020- 01101-5Praneeth S et al (2020) Accelerated carbonation of biochar reinforced cement-fly ash composites: enhancing and sequestering  CO2 in building materials. Constr Build Mater 244:118363. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020. 1183632477 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3Prasai TP et al (2016) Biochar, bentonite and zeolite supplemented feeding of layer chickens alters intestinal microbiota and reduces campylobacter load. PLoS ONE 11:e0154061. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1371/ journ al. pone. 01540 61Prasai T et al (2017) Effect of biochar, zeolite and bentonite feed sup-plements on egg yield and excreta attributes. Anim Prod Sci 58:1632–1641. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1071/ AN162 90Prasai TP et al (2018) Manure from biochar, bentonite and zeolite feed supplemented poultry: moisture retention and granulation prop-erties. J Environ Manag 216:82–88. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jenvm an. 2017. 08. 040Prasanna K et al (2019) Chitosan complements entrapment of silicon inside nitrogen doped carbon to improve and stabilize the capac-ity of Li-ion batteries. Sci Rep 9:3318. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/  s41598- 019- 39988-4Premarathna K et al (2019) Clay-biochar composites for sorptive removal of tetracycline antibiotic in aqueous media. J Environ Manag 238:315–322. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2019.  02. 069Puccini M, Stefanelli E, Hiltz M, Seggiani M, Vitolo S (2017) Acti-vated carbon from hydrochar produced by hydrothermal carboni-zation of wastes. Chem Eng Trans 57:169–174. https:// doi. org/  10. 3303/ CET17 57029Puga A et al (2015) Biochar application to a contaminated soil reduces the availability and plant uptake of zinc, lead and cadmium. J Environ Manag 159:86–93. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an.  2015. 05. 036Puga AP et al (2020a) Nitrogen availability and ammonia volatilization in biochar-based fertilizers. Arch Agron Soil Sci 66:992–1004. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 03650 340. 2019. 16509 16Puga AP et al (2020b) Biochar-based nitrogen fertilizers: greenhouse gas emissions, use efficiency, and maize yield in tropical soils. Sci Total Environ 704:135375. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 135375Purakayastha TJ et al (2019) A review on biochar modulated soil con-dition improvements and nutrient dynamics concerning crop yields: pathways to climate change mitigation and global food security. Chemosphere 227:345–365. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  chemo sphere. 2019. 03. 170Pytlak A et al (2020) Biochar addition reinforces microbial interspe -cies cooperation in methanation of sugar beet waste (pulp). Sci Total Environ 730:138921. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv.  2020. 138921Qambrani NA et al (2017) Biochar properties and eco-friendly appli-cations for climate change mitigation, waste management, and wastewater treatment: a review. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 79:255–273. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2017. 05. 057Qayyum MF et al (2017) Effects of co-composting of farm manure and biochar on plant growth and carbon mineralization in an alkaline soil. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 24:26060–26068. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 017- 0227-4Qi W et al (2017) Nanostructured anode materials for lithium-ion bat-teries: principle, recent progress and future perspectives. J Mater Chem A 5:19521–19540. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7ta0 5283aQi C et al (2021a) Biochar amendment to advance contaminant removal in anaerobic digestion of organic solid wastes: a review. Biores Technol 341:125827. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021.  125827Qi Q et al (2021b) Enhancement of methanogenic performance by gasification biochar on anaerobic digestion. Biores Technol 330:124993. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 124993Qian W et al (2022) A porous biochar supported nanoscale zero-valent iron material highly efficient for the simultaneous remediation of cadmium and lead contaminated soil. J Environ Sci (china) 113:231–241. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2021. 06. 014Qiao K et al (2018) Preparation of biochar from Enteromorpha prolifera and its use for the removal of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from aqueous solution. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 149:80–87. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecoenv. 2017. 11. 027Qin Y et al (2020) Specific surface area and electron donating capacity determine biochar’s role in methane production during anaerobic digestion. Biores Technol 303:122919. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 122919Qiu Z et al (2020) Remediation of cadmium-contaminated soil with biochar simultaneously improves biochar’s recalcitrance. Environ Pollut 256:113436. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol. 2019. 113436Qiu B et al (2021) Biochar as a low-cost adsorbent for aqueous heavy metal removal: a review. J Anal Appl Pyrol. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jaap. 2021. 105081Qu J et al (2021) KOH-activated porous biochar with high specific surface area for adsorptive removal of chromium (VI) and naph-thalene from water: affecting factors, mechanisms and reusabil-ity exploration. J Hazard Mater 401:123292. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jhazm at. 2020. 123292Quaiyum MA et al (2014) Effects of bamboo charcoal added feed on reduction of ammonia and growth of Pangasius hypophthalmus. J Aquac Res Dev 5:1. https:// doi. org/ 10. 4172/ 2155- 9546. 10002 69Quesada HB et al (2020) Chitosan, alginate and other macromolecules as activated carbon immobilizing agents: a review on compos-ite adsorbents for the removal of water contaminants. Int J Biol Macromol 164:2535–2549. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ijbio mac.  2020. 08. 118Rafique MI et al (2019) In situ immobilization of Cr and its availability to maize plants in tannery waste–contaminated soil: effects of biochar feedstock and pyrolysis temperature. J Soils Sediments 20:330–339. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11368- 019- 02399-zRaj FRMS et al (2020) N, S codoped activated mesoporous carbon derived from the Datura metel seed pod as active electrodes for supercapacitors. Diam Relat Mater 102:107687. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. diamo nd. 2019. 107687Rajagopal R et al (2013) A critical review on inhibition of anaerobic digestion process by excess ammonia. Biores Technol 143:632–641. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2013. 06. 030Rajapaksha AU et al (2016) Steam activation of biochars facili-tates kinetics and pH-resilience of sulfamethazine sorp -tion. J Soils Sediments 16:889–895. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11368- 015- 1325-xRajapaksha AU et al (2018) Removal of hexavalent chromium in aque-ous solutions using biochar: chemical and spectroscopic inves-tigations. Sci Total Environ 625:1567–1573. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 12. 195Ramanayaka S et al (2020) Nanobiochar: production, properties, and multifunctional applications. Environ Sci Nano 7:3279–3302. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ D0EN0 0486CRameeh V (2012) Ions uptake, yield and yield attributes of rapeseed exposed to salinity stress. J Soil Sci Plant Nutr 12:851–861. https:// doi. org/ 10. 4067/ s0718- 95162 01200 50000 37Rasapoor M et al (2020) Effects of biochar and activated carbon on biogas generation: a thermogravimetric and chemical analysis approach. Energy Convers Manag 203:1122. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. encon man. 2019. 112221Rashidi N et al (2020) Effects of licorice extract, probiotic, toxin binder and poultry litter biochar on performance, immune function, blood indices and liver histopathology of broilers exposed to aflatoxin-B1. Poult Sci 99:5896–5906. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  psj. 2020. 08. 034Rawal A et al (2016) Mineral–biochar composites: molecular structure and porosity. Environ Sci Technol 50:7706–7714. https:// doi. org/  10. 1021/ acs. est. 6b006 85Reguyal F, Sarmah AK (2018) Adsorption of sulfamethoxazole by magnetic biochar: effects of pH, ionic strength, natural organic 2478 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3matter and 17α-ethinylestradiol. Sci Total Environ 628–629:722–730. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018. 01. 323Ren Y et al (2018) A comprehensive review on food waste anaero-bic digestion: research updates and tendencies. Biores Technol 247:1069–1076. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 09. 109Restuccia L et al (2020) Mechanical characterization of different bio-char-based cement composites. Proc Struct Integr 25:226–233. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. prostr. 2020. 04. 027Ritz C et al (2011) Evaluation of surface-applied char on the reduction of ammonia volatilization from broiler litter. J Appl Poultry Res 20:240–245. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3382/ japr. 2010- 00327Rojas-Mayorga CK et al (2013) Optimization of pyrolysis conditions and adsorption properties of bone char for fluoride removal from water. J Anal Appl Pyrol 104:10–18. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jaap. 2013. 09. 018Romero-Cano LA et al (2019) Surface functionalization to abate the irreversible capacity of hard carbons derived from grapefruit peels for sodium-ion batteries. Electrochim Acta 326:134973. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. elect  acta. 2019. 134973Roy K et al (2015) Background of QSAR and historical develop-ments. understanding the basics of QSAR for applications in pharmaceutical sciences and risk assessment, 1st edn. Academic, LondonRoy S et al (2018) Chemically reduced tea waste biochar and its appli -cation in treatment of fluoride containing wastewater: batch and optimization using response surface methodology. Process Saf Environ Prot 116:553–563. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  psep.  2018.  03. 009Saadat S et al (2018) Enhanced removal of phosphate from aqueous solutions using a modified sludge derived biochar: Comparative study of various modifying cations and RSM based optimization of pyrolysis parameters. J Environ Manag 225:75–83. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2018. 07. 037Saeed AAH et al (2022) Removal of cadmium from aqueous solution by optimized rice husk biochar using response surface methodol-ogy. Ain Shams Eng J. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. asej. 2021. 06. 002Safaei Khorram M et al (2019) Impact of biochar and compost amend -ment on soil quality, growth and yield of a replanted apple orchard in a 4-year field study. J Sci Food Agric 99:1862–1869. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ jsfa. 9380Saha D, Kienbaum MJ (2019) Role of oxygen, nitrogen and sulfur functionalities on the surface of nanoporous carbons in CO2 adsorption: a critical review. Microporous Mesoporous Mater 287:29–55. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. micro meso. 2019. 05. 051Sahin O et al (2017) Effect of acid modification of biochar on nutri-ent availability and maize growth in a calcareous soil. Soil Use Manag 33:447–456. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ sum. 12360Sahota S et al (2018) Characterization of leaf waste based biochar for cost effective hydrogen sulphide removal from biogas. Bioresour Technol 250:635–641. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017.  11. 093Sajjadi B et al (2019a) A comprehensive review on physical activation of biochar for energy and environmental applications. Rev Chem Eng 35:735–776. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1515/ revce- 2017- 0113Sajjadi B et al (2019b) Urea functionalization of ultrasound-treated biochar: a feasible strategy for enhancing heavy metal adsorption capacity. Ultrason Sonochem 51:20–30. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  ultso nch. 2018. 09. 015Saleem AM et al (2018) Effect of engineered biocarbon on rumen fer -mentation, microbial protein synthesis, and methane production in an artificial rumen (RUSITEC) fed a high forage diet. J Anim Sci 96:3121–3130. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1093/ jas/ sky204Salman CA et al (2019) Synergistic combination of pyrolysis, anaero-bic digestion, and CHP plants. Energy Procedia 158:1323–1329. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. egypro. 2019. 01. 326Sambusiti C et al (2013) A comparison of different pre-treatments to increase methane production from two agricultural substrates. Appl Energy 104:62–70. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apene rgy.  2012. 10. 060Sánchez-García M et al (2015) Biochar accelerates organic matter degradation and enhances N mineralisation during composting of poultry manure without a relevant impact on gas emissions. Bioresour Technol 192:272–279. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2015. 05. 003Sanchez-Monedero M et al (2018) Role of biochar as an additive in organic waste composting. Biores Technol 247:1155–1164. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 09. 193Sánchez-Monedero MA et al (2019) Agronomic evaluation of biochar, compost and biochar-blended compost across different cropping systems: perspective from the European project FERTIPLUS. Agronomy 9:225. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ agron omy90 50225Sarkhot DV et al (2013) Effectiveness of biochar for sorption of ammonium and phosphate from dairy effluent. J Environ Qual 42:1545–1554. https:// doi. org/ 10. 2134/ jeq20 12. 0482Saroeun K et al (2018) Rice distillers’ byproduct and molasses-urea blocks containing biochar improved the growth performance of local Yellow cattle fed ensiled cassava roots, cassava foliage and rice straw. Bone 3: 3. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd30/ 9/ saroe 30162.  htmlSaudy HS et al (2021) Assessing the effect of biochar or compost application as a spot placement on broomrape control in two cultivars of faba bean. J Soil Sci Plant Nutr. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s42729- 021- 00485-1Sawatdeenarunat C et al (2016) Anaerobic biorefinery: current status, challenges, and opportunities. Biores Technol 215:304–313. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 03. 074Schmidt H-P et al (2019a) Pyrogenic carbon capture and storage. GCB Bioenergy 11:573–591. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/ gcbb. 12553Schmidt H-P et al (2019b) The use of biochar in animal feeding. PeerJ 7:e7373. https:// doi. org/ 10. 7717/ peerj. 7373Schubert DC et al (2021) Effect of two different biochars as a compo-nent of compound feed on nutrient digestibility and performance parameters in growing pigs. Front Anim Sci. https:// doi. org/ 10.  3389/ fanim. 2021. 633958Searchinger T et al (2021) Opportunities to reduce methane emissions from global agricultureSemida WM et al (2019) Biochar implications for sustainable agricul-ture and environment: a review. S Afr J Bot 127:333–347. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. sajb. 2019. 11. 015Sethupathi S et al (2017) Biochars as potential adsorbers of  CH4,  CO2 and  H2S. 9:121Shan R et al (2020) Aqueous Cr(VI) removal by biochar derived from waste mangosteen shells: role of pyrolysis and modification on its absorption process. J Environ Chem Eng 8:103885. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jece. 2020. 103885Shang G et al (2013) Kinetics and mechanisms of hydrogen sulfide adsorption by biochars. Bioresour Technol 133:495–499. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2013. 01. 114Shang Z et al (2020) Houttuynia-derived nitrogen-doped hierarchi -cally porous carbon for high-performance supercapacitor. Carbon 161:62–70. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. carbon. 2020. 01. 020Shang M et al (2021) N, S self-doped hollow-sphere porous carbon derived from puffball spores for high performance supercapaci-tors. Appl Surf Sci 542:148697. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsusc.  2020. 148697Shanmugam SR et al (2018) Effect of bio-char on methane genera-tion from glucose and aqueous phase of algae liquefaction using mixed anaerobic cultures. Biomass Bioenerg 108:479–486. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biomb ioe. 2017. 10. 034Shao H et  al (2017) Crab shell-derived nitrogen-doped micro-/mesoporous carbon as an effective separator coating for high 2479 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3energy lithium–sulfur batteries. J Mater Chem A 5:19892–19900. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ C7TA0 5192AShen Y et al (2015) Producing pipeline-quality biomethane via anaero-bic digestion of sludge amended with corn stover biochar with in-situ  CO2 removal. Appl Energy 158:300–309. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. apene rgy. 2015. 08. 016Shen Y et al (2016) Towards a sustainable paradigm of waste-to-energy process: enhanced anaerobic digestion of sludge with woody bio-char. J Clean Prod 135:1054–1064. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep  ro. 2016. 06. 144Shen Y et al (2017) Yearlong semi-continuous operation of thermo-philic two-stage anaerobic digesters amended with biochar for enhanced biomethane production. J Clean Prod 167:863–874. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2017. 05. 135Shen Y et al (2019) Typha-derived hard carbon for high-performance sodium ion storage. J Alloy Compd 784:1290–1296. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2019. 01. 021Shen Y et al (2020) Activated carbons synthesized from unaltered and pelletized biomass wastes for bio-tar adsorption in different phases. Renew Energy 146:1700–1709. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  renene. 2019. 07. 167Shetty R, Prakash NB (2020) Effect of different biochars on acid soil and growth parameters of rice plants under aluminium toxicity. Sci Rep 10(1):1–10. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/ s41598- 020- 69262-xShi L-D et al (2020) Coupled anaerobic methane oxidation and reduc -tive arsenic mobilization in wetland soils. Nat Geosci 13:799–805. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1038/ s41561- 020- 00659-zShim T et al (2015) Effect of steam activation of biochar produced from a giant Miscanthus on copper sorption and toxicity. Biores Tech-nol 197:85–90. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2015. 08. 055Shin J, Park S (2018) Optimization of blended biochar pellet by the use of nutrient releasing model. Appl Sci 8:2274. https:// doi. org/  10. 3390/ app81 12274Shin J et al (2021) Competitive adsorption of pharmaceuticals in lake water and wastewater effluent by pristine and NaOH-activated biochars from spent coffee wastes: contribution of hydrophobic and π–π interactions. Environ Pollut 270:116244. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. envpol. 2020. 116244Silivong P, Preston T (2015) Growth performance of goats was improved when a basal diet of foliage of Bauhinia acuminata was supplemented with water spinach and biochar. Livestock Res Rural Dev 27. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd27/ 3/ sili2 7058. htmlSim D et al (2021) Encapsulated biochar-based sustained release fer -tilizer for precision agriculture: a review. J Clean Prod. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2021. 127018Singh R et al (2020) Biochars for the removal of naphthenic acids from water: a prospective approach towards remediation of petroleum refinery wastewater. J Clean Prod 266:121986. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020. 121986Sirico A et al (2020) Mechanical characterization of cement-based materials containing biochar from gasification. Constr Build Mater 246:118490. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. conbu ildmat. 2020.  118490Sivarajasekar N et al (2018) Fixed-bed adsorption of ranitidine hydro-chloride onto microwave assisted—activated aegle marmelos correa fruit shell: statistical optimization and breakthrough mod-elling. Arab J Sci Eng 43:2205–2215. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s13369- 017- 2565-4Sivilai B et al (2018) Rice distillers’ byproduct and biochar as addi-tives to a forage-based diet for growing Moo Lath pigs; effects on growth and feed conversion. Livestock Res Rural Dev 30:111. http:// www. lrrd. org/ lrrd30/ 6/ lert3 0111. htmlSolanki A, Boyer TH (2017) Pharmaceutical removal in synthetic human urine using biochar. Environ Sci Water Res Technol 3:553–565. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c6ew0 0224bSon E-B et al (2018) Heavy metal removal from aqueous solutions using engineered magnetic biochars derived from waste marine macro-algal biomass. Sci Total Environ 615:161–168. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 09. 171Song J et al (2018) Hierarchical porous carbons derived from renewable poplar anthers for high-performance supercapacitors. ChemElec-troChem 5:1451–1458. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ celc. 20180 0305Song P et al (2019a) Dissolution-assistant all-in-one synthesis of N and S dual-doped porous carbon for high-performance superca-pacitors. Adv Powder Technol 30:2211–2217. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. apt. 2019. 07. 001Song X et al (2019b) Tea waste derived microporous active carbon with enhanced double-layer supercapacitor behaviors. Appl Surf Sci 487:189–197. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsusc. 2019. 04. 277Sonoki T et al (2013) Influence of biochar addition on methane metabo-lism during thermophilic phase of composting. J Basic Microbiol 53:617–621. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ jobm. 20120 0096Sophia A C, Lima EC (2018) Removal of emerging contaminants from the environment by adsorption. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 150:1–17. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ecoenv. 2017. 12. 026Sorrenti G et al (2019) Root growth dynamic and plant performance of nectarine trees amended with biochar and compost. Sci Hortic 257:108710. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scien ta. 2019. 108710Srivastav AL, Kumar A (2021) An endeavor to achieve sustainable development goals through floral waste management: a short review. J Clean Prod. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020.  124669Stefaniuk M, Oleszczuk PJEP (2016) Addition of biochar to sewage sludge decreases freely dissolved PAHs content and toxicity of sewage sludge-amended soil. Environ Pollut 218:242–251. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol. 2016. 06. 063Steiner C et al (2010) Reducing nitrogen loss during poultry litter com-posting using biochar. J Environ Qual 39:1236–1242. https://  doi. org/ 10. 2134/ jeq20 09. 0337Su X et al (2018) Hierarchical porous carbon materials from bio waste-mango stone for high-performance supercapacitor electrodes. Mater Lett 230:123–127. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. matlet. 2018.  07. 096Su C et al (2019) Application of biochar in a CIC reactor to relieve ammonia nitrogen stress and promote microbial community dur -ing food waste treatment. J Clean Prod 209:353–362. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2018. 10. 269Su MH et al (2020) Simultaneous removal of toxic ammonia and let-tuce cultivation in aquaponic system using microwave pyrolysis biochar. J Hazard Mater 396:122610. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jhazm at. 2020. 122610Suarez-Riera D et al (2020) The use of Biochar to reduce the carbon footprint of cement-based materials. Proc Struct Integr 26:199–210. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. prostr. 2020. 06. 023Suárez-Vázquez SI et al (2021) Comparative study of biochar pre-pared from cow dung and sewage sludge and its application as an adsorbent for organic pollutants removal in water. Environ Prog Sustain Energy. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ ep. 13593Sun F, Lu S (2014) Biochars improve aggregate stability, water reten-tion, and pore-space properties of clayey soil. J Plant Nutr Soil Sci 177:26–33. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ jpln. 20120 0639Sun Q et al (2015) Selection of appropriate biogas upgrading tech-nology—a review of biogas cleaning, upgrading and utilisation. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 51:521–532. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. rser. 2015. 06. 029Sun C et al (2016) Biogas production from undiluted chicken manure and maize silage: a study of ammonia inhibition in high solids anaerobic digestion. Biores Technol 218:1215–1223. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 07. 082Sun K et al (2018) Hybrid symmetric supercapacitor assembled by renewable corn silks based porous carbon and redox-active 2480 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3electrolytes. Mater Chem Phys 218:229–238. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. match emphys. 2018. 07. 052Sun C et al (2019) Enhanced adsorption for Pb(II) and Cd(II) of magnetic rice husk biochar by KMnO4 modification. Envi-ron Sci Pollut Res 26:8902–8913. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s11356- 019- 04321-zSun X et al (2020a) Feasibility of using biochar as buffer and mineral nutrients replacement for acetone-butanol-ethanol production from non-detoxified switchgrass hydrolysate. Biores Technol 298:122569. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 122569Sun X et al (2020b) Biochar facilitated bioprocessing and biorefinery for productions of biofuel and chemicals: a review. Biores Tech-nol 295:122252. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 122252Sunyoto NM et al (2016) Effect of biochar addition on hydrogen and methane production in two-phase anaerobic digestion of aqueous carbohydrates food waste. Biores Technol 219:29–36. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 07. 089Sutton K et al (2021) Development of fluorine-intercalated biochar material for radiation shielding. J Anal Appl Pyrol 155:105038. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jaap. 2021. 105038Takaya CA et al (2016) Phosphate and ammonium sorption capacity of biochar and hydrochar from different wastes. Chemosphere 145:518–527. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2015. 11.  052Tamayao PJ et al (2021) Effects of post-pyrolysis treated biochars on methane production, ruminal fermentation, and rumen microbiota of a silage-based diet in an artificial rumen system (RUSITEC). Anim Feed Sci Technol 273:114802. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. anife edsci. 2020. 114802Tan X et al (2015) Application of biochar for the removal of pollutants from aqueous solutions. Chemosphere 125:70–85. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2014. 12. 058Tan X-F et al (2017) Biochar as potential sustainable precursors for activated carbon production: multiple applications in environ-mental protection and energy storage. Biores Technol 227:359–372. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 12. 083Tanure MMC et al (2019) Soil water retention, physiological char -acteristics, and growth of maize plants in response to biochar application to soil. Soil Tillage Res 192:164–173. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. still. 2019. 05. 007Tao N et al (2021) Supplementation of Schwertmannite improves meth-ane production and heavy metal stabilization during anaerobic swine manure treatment. Fuel 299:120883. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. fuel. 2021. 120883Te WZ et al (2021) Optimization of pyrolysis parameters for production of Biochar From Banana Peels: evaluation of Biochar application on the growth of Ipomoea aquatica. Front Energy Res. https://  doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fenrg. 2020. 637846Tenic E et al (2020) Biochar—a panacea for agriculture or just carbon? Horticulturae 6:37. https://  doi. org/ 10. 3390/  horti  cultu  rae60  30037Teoh R et al (2019) Effects of hardwood biochar on methane produc-tion, fermentation characteristics, and the rumen microbiota using rumen simulation. Front Microbiol 10:1534. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 3389/ fmicb. 2019. 01534Terayama K et al (2021) Black-box optimization for automated dis-covery. Acc Chem Res 54:1334–1346. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/  acs. accou nts. 0c007 13Terry SA et al (2019) A pine enhanced biochar does not decrease enteric  CH4 emissions, but alters the rumen microbiota. Front Vet Sci 6:308. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fvets. 2019. 00308Thang PQ et al (2019) Potential application of chicken manure biochar towards toxic phenol and 2, 4-dinitrophenol in wastewaters. J Environ Manag 251:109556. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an.  2019. 109556Thirunavukkarasu A et al (2021) Continuous fixed-bed biosorption process: a review. Chem Eng J Adv 8:100188. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. ceja. 2021. 100188Thommes M et al (2015) Physisorption of gases, with special refer -ence to the evaluation of surface area and pore size distribution (IUPAC Technical Report). Pure Appl Chem 87:1051–1069. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1515/ pac- 2014- 1117Thu M et al (2010) Effects of supplementation of dietary bamboo char -coal on growth performance and body composition of juvenile Japanese flounder, Paralichthys olivaceus. J World Aquac Soc 41:255–262. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1111/j. 1749- 7345. 2010. 00365.xTian X et al (2017) Flute type micropores activated carbon from cot-ton stalk for high performance supercapacitors. J Power Sources 359:88–96. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2017. 05. 054Tomczyk A et al (2020) Biochar physicochemical properties: pyrolysis temperature and feedstock kind effects. Rev Environ Sci Bio/tech-nol 19:191–215. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11157- 020- 09523-3Tong M et al (2020) Transport behaviors of plastic particles in satu-rated quartz sand without and with biochar/Fe3O4-biochar amendment. Water Res 169:115284. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  watres. 2019. 115284Toth JD et al (2016) Use and impact of biochar and charcoal in animal production systems. Agric Environ Appl Biochar Adv Barriers 63:199–224. https://  doi. org/ 10. 2136/  sssas  pecpu  b63. 2014.  0043.5Turk Sekulic M et al (2018) Efficient removal of priority, hazardous priority and emerging pollutants with Prunus armeniaca func-tionalized biochar from aqueous wastes: experimental optimiza -tion and modeling. Sci Total Environ 613–614:736–750. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 09. 082Uchimiya M et al (2011) Screening biochars for heavy metal reten-tion in soil: role of oxygen functional groups. J Hazard Mater 190:432–441. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2011. 03. 063UN (2020) The sustainable development goals report 2020. United Nations; 2020Vandecasteele B et al (2016) Biochar amendment before or after com-posting affects compost quality and N losses, but not P plant uptake. J Environ Manag 168:200–209. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jenvm an. 2015. 11. 045Vandecasteele B et al (2017) Feedstock mixture composition as key factor for C/P ratio and phosphorus availability in composts: role of biodegradation potential, biochar amendment and calcium content. Waste Biomass Valor 8:2553–2567. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s12649- 016- 9762-3Viaene J et al (2017) Co-ensiling, co-composting and anaerobic co-digestion of vegetable crop residues: product stability and effect on soil carbon and nitrogen dynamics. Sci Hortic 220:214–225. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scien ta. 2017. 03. 015Vidhya L et al (2020) Mesoporous biochar obtained from coir pith on removing nickel (II) from aqueous simulated solution—batch and column studies. Desalin Water Treat 206:202–214. https://  doi. org/ 10. 5004/ dwt. 2020. 26265Viggi CC et al (2017) Enhancing methane production from food waste fermentate using biochar: the added value of electrochemical test-ing in pre-selecting the most effective type of biochar. Biotechnol Biofuels 10:1–13. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1186/ s13068- 017- 0994-7Vigneshwaran S et al (2021) Fabrication of sulfur-doped biochar derived from tapioca peel waste with superior adsorption per -formance for the removal of Malachite green and Rhodamine B dyes. Surf Interfaces 23:100920. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. surfin. 2020. 100920Vijay V et al (2021) Review of large-scale biochar field-trials for soil amendment and the observed influences on crop yield variations. Front Energy Res. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3389/ fenrg. 2021. 710766Vijayakumar M et al (2019) Conversion of biomass waste into high per -formance supercapacitor electrodes for real-time supercapacitor 2481 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3applications. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 7:17175–17185. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 9b035 68Vyavahare G et al (2019) Strategies for crystal violet dye sorption on biochar derived from mango leaves and evaluation of residual dye toxicity. J Clean Prod 207:296–305. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jclep ro. 2018. 09. 193Wal K et al (2021) Application of clay minerals and their derivatives in adsorption from gaseous phase. Appl Clay Sci 215:106323. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. clay. 2021. 106323Wali F et al (2020) Formulation of biochar-based phosphorus ferti-lizer and its impact on both soil properties and chickpea growth performance. Sustainability 12:9528. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  su122 29528Wan S et al (2018) Enhanced lead and cadmium removal using bio -char-supported hydrated manganese oxide (HMO) nanoparticles: behavior and mechanism. Sci Total Environ 616–617:1298–1306. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2017. 10. 188Wan L et al (2019a) Multi-heteroatom-doped hierarchical porous car -bon derived from chestnut shell with superior performance in supercapacitors. J Alloy Compd 790:760–771. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2019. 03. 241Wan L et al (2019b) Nitrogen, sulfur co-doped hierarchically porous carbon from rape pollen as high-performance supercapacitor electrode. Electrochim Acta 311:72–82. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  elect  acta. 2019. 04. 106Wan L et al (2021) Heteroatom-doped porous carbons derived from lotus pollen for supercapacitors: comparison of three activators. J Alloy Compd 859:158390. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om.  2020. 158390Wang J, Wang S (2019) Preparation, modification and environmental application of biochar: a review. J Clean Prod 227:1002–1022. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2019. 04. 282Wang C et al (2013) Insight into the effects of biochar on manure composting: evidence supporting the relationship between  N2O emission and denitrifying community. Environ Sci Technol 47:7341–7349. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ es305 293hWang J et al (2016) Biochar stability in soil: meta-analysis of decom-position and priming effects. GCB Bioenergy 8:512–523. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1111/ gcbb. 12266Wang B et al (2017a) Recent advances in engineered biochar produc-tions and applications. Crit Rev Environ Sci Technol 47:2158–2207. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1080/ 10643 389. 2017. 14185 80Wang D et al (2017b) Improving anaerobic digestion of easy-acidi-fication substrates by promoting buffering capacity using bio-char derived from vermicompost. Biores Technol 227:286–296. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2016. 12. 060Wang Q et al (2017c) Comparison of biochar, zeolite and their mixture amendment for aiding organic matter transformation and nitro-gen conservation during pig manure composting. Biores Technol 245:300–308. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 08. 158Wang J et al (2017d) One-step preparation and application of magnetic sludge-derived biochar on acid orange 7 removal via both adsorp-tion and persulfate based oxidation. RSC Adv 7:18696–18706. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7ra0 1425bWang S et al (2017e) The sorptive and reductive capacities of biochar supported nanoscaled zero-valent iron (nZVI) in relation to its crystallite size. Chemosphere 186:495–500. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. chemo sphere. 2017. 08. 014Wang C et al (2017f) Controlling pseudographtic domain dimension of dandelion derived biomass carbon for excellent sodium-ion storage. J Power Sources 358:85–92. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jpows our. 2017. 05. 011Wang G et al (2018a) Synergetic promotion of syntrophic methane pro-duction from anaerobic digestion of complex organic wastes by biochar: Performance and associated mechanisms. Biores Tech-nol 250:812–820. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017.  12. 004Wang C et al (2018b) Role of biochar in the granulation of anaero-bic sludge and improvement of electron transfer characteristics. Biores Technol 268:28–35. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech.  2018. 07. 116Wang Q et al (2018c) Combining biochar, zeolite and wood vinegar for composting of pig manure: the effect on greenhouse gas emission and nitrogen conservation. Waste Manag 74:221–230. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2018. 01. 015Wang RZ et al (2018d) Investigating the adsorption behavior and the relative distribution of Cd(2+) sorption mechanisms on biochars by different feedstock. Bioresour Technol 261:265–271. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018. 04. 032Wang Q et al (2018e) Rice husk-derived hard carbons as high-per -formance anode materials for sodium-ion batteries. Carbon 127:658–666. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. carbon. 2017. 11. 054Wang L et al (2019a) Mechanisms and reutilization of modified biochar used for removal of heavy metals from wastewater: a review. Sci Total Environ 668:1298–1309. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 03. 011Wang H et al (2019b) Impacts to hydrogen sulfide concentrations in biogas when poplar wood chips, steam treated wood chips, and biochar are added to manure-based anaerobic digestion systems. Bioresour Technol Rep 7:100232. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biteb.  2019. 100232Wang A et al (2019c) Biomass-derived porous carbon highly efficient for removal of Pb(II) and Cd(II). Green Energy Environ 4:414–423. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. gee. 2019. 05. 002Wang Y et al (2019d) Nitrogen-doped porous carbon derived from ginkgo leaves with remarkable supercapacitance performance. Diam Relat Mater 98:107475. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. diamo  nd. 2019. 107475Wang Q et al (2019e) Copper oxide/cuprous oxide/hierarchical porous biomass-derived carbon hybrid composites for high-performance supercapacitor electrode. J Alloy Compd 782:1103–1113. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2018. 12. 235Wang P et al (2019f) Low-cost water caltrop shell-derived hard car -bons with high initial coulombic efficiency for sodium-ion bat-tery anodes. J Alloy Compd 775:1028–1035. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. jallc om. 2018. 10. 180Wang Z et al (2020a) Characterization of acid-aged biochar and its ammonium adsorption in an aqueous solution. Materials 13:2270. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ ma131 02270Wang S et al (2020b) Biochar surface complexation and Ni(II), Cu(II), and Cd(II) adsorption in aqueous solutions depend on feedstock type. Sci Total Environ 712:136538. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv. 2020. 136538Wang K et al (2020c) Synthesis of silica-composited biochars from alkali-fused fly ash and agricultural wastes for enhanced adsorp-tion of methylene blue. Sci Total Environ 729:139055. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 139055Wang L et al (2020d) Biochar as green additives in cement-based com-posites with carbon dioxide curing. J Clean Prod 258:120678. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020. 120678Wang K et al (2020e) Durian shell-derived N, O, P-doped activated porous carbon materials and their electrochemical performance in supercapacitor. J Mater Sci 55:10142–10154. https:// doi. org/  10. 1007/ s10853- 020- 04740-1Wang L et al (2021a) Biochar composites: emerging trends, field suc-cesses, and sustainability implications. Soil Use Manag. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1111/ sum. 12731Wang C et al (2021b) Biochar facilitates rapid restoration of methano-genesis by enhancing direct interspecies electron transfer after high organic loading shock. Biores Technol 320:124360. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 124360Wang J et al (2021c) Enhancing anaerobic digestion of kitchen wastes with biochar: link between different properties and critical 2482 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3mechanisms of promoting interspecies electron transfer. Renew Energy 167:791–799. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. renene. 2020. 11.  153Wang G et al (2021d) Biochar triggers methanogenesis recovery of a severely acidified anaerobic digestion system via hydrogen-based syntrophic pathway inhibition. Int J Hydrog Energy 46:9666–9677. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. ijhyd ene. 2020. 03. 115Wang X et al (2021e) Dynamic evolution of humic acids during anaero-bic digestion: exploring an effective auxiliary agent for heavy metal remediation. Biores Technol 320:124331. https:// doi. org/  10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 124331Wang J et al (2021f) Biochar improves heavy metal passivation during wet anaerobic digestion of pig manure. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 28:635–644. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s11356- 020- 10474-zWathukarage A et al (2019) Mechanistic understanding of crystal vio-let dye sorption by woody biochar: implications for wastewater treatment. Environ Geochem Health 41:1647–1661. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1007/ s10653- 017- 0013-8Wei L et al (2014) Biochar influences the microbial community struc-ture during tomato stalk composting with chicken manure. Biores Technol 154:148–154. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2013.  12. 022Wei W et al (2019a) Polyvinyl chloride microplastics affect meth-ane production from the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge through leaching toxic bisphenol-A. Environ Sci Technol 53:2509–2517. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acs. est. 8b070 69Wei W et al (2019b) Revealing the mechanisms of polyethylene micro-plastics affecting anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge. Environ Sci Technol 53:9604–9613. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acs.  est. 9b029 71Wei W et al (2020a) Enhanced high-quality biomethane production from anaerobic digestion of primary sludge by corn stover bio-char. Biores Technol 306:123159. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2020. 123159Wei W et al (2020b) Polystyrene nanoplastics reshape the anaerobic granular sludge for recovering methane from wastewater. Water Res 182:116041. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. watres. 2020. 116041Wei Y et al (2021) Composting with biochar or woody peat addi-tion reduces phosphorus bioavailability. Sci Total Environ 764:142841. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 142841WHO (2007) Combating waterborne disease at the household levelWHO (2019) Progress on household drinking water, sanitation and hygiene 2000–2017: special focus on inequalities. World Health OrganizationWiedner K et al (2015) Acceleration of Biochar surface oxidation dur -ing composting? J Agric Food Chem 63:3830–3837. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acs. jafc. 5b008 46Wilson DC, Velis CA (2015) Waste management–still a global chal-lenge in the 21st century: an evidence-based call for action. Waste Manag Res 33:1049–1051. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1177/ 07342  42X15 616055Willson N-L et al (2019) Feed supplementation with biochar may reduce poultry pathogens, including Campylobacter hepati-cus, the causative agent of spotty liver disease. PLoS ONE 14:e0214471. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1371/ journ al. pone. 02144 71Windeatt JH et al (2014) Characteristics of biochars from crop resi-dues: potential for carbon sequestration and soil amendment. J Environ Manag 146:189–197. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an.  2014. 08. 003Winders TM et al (2019) Evaluation of the effects of biochar on diet digestibility and methane production from growing and finish-ing steers. Transl Anim Sci 3:775–783. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1093/  tas/ txz027Wong YJ et al (2020) Comparative study of artificial neural network (ANN), adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) and multiple linear regression (MLR) for modeling of Cu (II) adsorp-tion from aqueous solution using biochar derived from rambutan (Nephelium lappaceum) peel. Environ Monit Assess 192:439. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10661- 020- 08268-4Wu Y, Chen B (2019) Effect of fulvic acid coating on biochar surface structure and sorption properties towards 4-chlorophenol. Sci Total Environ 691:595–604. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv.  2019. 06. 501Wu H et al (2016) Responses of bacterial community and functional marker genes of nitrogen cycling to biochar, compost and com-bined amendments in soil. Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 100:8583–8591. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00253- 016- 7614-5Wu Y et al (2018) Effect of a weak magnetic field on triclosan removal using zero-valent iron under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Chem Eng J 346:24–33. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cej. 2018.  03. 134Wu J et al (2019a) Adsorptive removal of tetracyclines and fluoroqui-nolones using yak dung biochar. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol 102:407–412. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s00128- 018- 2516-0Wu F et al (2019b) Hierarchical porous carbon microrods derived from albizia flowers for high performance supercapacitors. Carbon 147:242–251. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. carbon. 2019. 02. 072Wu F et al (2019c) Lotus seedpod-derived hard carbon with hierarchi-cal porous structure as stable anode for sodium-ion batteries. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 11:12554–12561. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1021/ acsami. 9b014 19Wu J et al (2021) A novel modified method for the efficient removal of Pb and Cd from wastewater by biochar: enhanced the ion exchange and precipitation capacity. Sci Total Environ 754:142150. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2020. 142150Xia H et al (2022) Biochar-N fertilizer interaction increases N utiliza-tion efficiency by modifying soil C/N component under N ferti-lizer deep placement modes. Chemosphere 286:131594. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2021. 131594Xiang J et al (2017a) Activated hard carbon from orange peel for lithium/sodium ion battery anode with long cycle life. J Alloy Compd 701:870–874. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om. 2017. 01. 206Xiang M et al (2017b) Natural silk cocoon derived nitrogen-doped porous carbon nanosheets for high performance lithium-sulfur batteries. Electrochim Acta 227:7–16. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  elect  acta. 2016. 11. 139Xiang Y et al (2019) Carbon-based materials as adsorbent for antibi-otics removal: mechanisms and influencing factors. J Environ Manag 237:128–138. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jenvm an. 2019.  02. 068Xiang Y et al (2020a) Fabrication of sustainable manganese ferrite modified biochar from vinasse for enhanced adsorption of fluoro-quinolone antibiotics: effects and mechanisms. Sci Total Environ 709:136079. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 136079Xiang W et al (2020b) Biochar technology in wastewater treatment: a critical review. Chemosphere 252:126539. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. chemo sphere. 2020. 126539Xiao R et al (2017) Recent developments in biochar utilization as an additive in organic solid waste composting: a review. Bioresour Technol 246:203–213. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017.  07. 090Xiao L et al (2019) Biochar promotes methane production at high acetate concentrations in anaerobic soils. Environ Chem Lett 17:1347–1352. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s10311- 019- 00863-3Xu X et al (2014) Comparison of sewage sludge- and pig manure-derived biochars for hydrogen sulfide removal. Chemosphere 111:296–303. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2014. 04.  014Xu G et al (2016) Negative interactive effects between biochar and phosphorus fertilization on phosphorus availability and plant 2483 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3yield in saline sodic soil. Sci Total Environ 568:910–915. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2016. 06. 079Xu X et al (2017) Walnut shell derived porous carbon for a symmet-ric all-solid-state supercapacitor. Appl Surf Sci 411:170–176. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsusc. 2017. 03. 124Xu J et al (2018) Effect of hydrochar on anaerobic digestion of dead pig carcass after hydrothermal pretreatment. Waste Manag 78:849–856. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman. 2018. 07. 003Xu Q et al (2019) Novel lanthanum doped biochars derived from lig-nocellulosic wastes for efficient phosphate removal and regenera -tion. Bioresour Technol 289:121600. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2019. 121600Xu Z et al (2021) Manganese ferrite modified biochar from vinasse for enhanced adsorption of levofloxacin: effects and mechanisms. Environ Pollut 272:115968. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol.  2020. 115968Xue Y et al (2012) Hydrogen peroxide modification enhances the ability of biochar (hydrochar) produced from hydrothermal car -bonization of peanut hull to remove aqueous heavy metals: batch and column tests. Chem Eng J 200:673–680. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. cej. 2012. 06. 116Xue M et al (2017) A novel mangosteen peels derived hierarchical porous carbon for lithium sulfur battery. Mater Lett 209:594–597. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. matlet. 2017. 08. 090Yang G, Park S-J (2018)  MnO2 and biomass-derived 3D porous carbon composites electrodes for high performance supercapacitor appli-cations. J Alloy Compd 741:360–367. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  jallc om. 2018. 01. 108Yang Y et al (2014) Biochar from Alternanthera philoxeroides could remove Pb(II) efficiently. Biores Technol 171:227–232. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2014. 08. 015Yang X et al (2018) Graphene functionalized bio-carbon xerogel for achieving high-rate and high-stability supercapacitors. Electro-chim Acta 282:813–821. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. elect  acta. 2018.  06. 131Yang X et al (2019a) Preparation and modification of biochar materi-als and their application in soil remediation. Appl Sci 9:1365. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ app90 71365Yang S-S et al (2019b) Generation of high-efficient biochar for dye adsorption using frass of yellow mealworms (larvae of Tenebrio molitor Linnaeus) fed with wheat straw for insect biomass pro-duction. J Clean Prod 227:33–47. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep  ro. 2019. 04. 005Yang X et al (2019c) Characterization and ecotoxicological investiga-tion of biochar produced via slow pyrolysis: effect of feedstock composition and pyrolysis conditions. J Hazard Mater 365:178–185. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2018. 10. 047Yang S et al (2019d) Biomass derived interconnected hierarchical micro-meso-macro- porous carbon with ultrahigh capacitance for supercapacitors. Carbon 147:540–549. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. carbon. 2019. 03. 023Yang L et al (2020) Pore structure regulation of hard carbon: towards fast and high-capacity sodium-ion storage. J Colloid Interface Sci 566:257–264. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jcis. 2020. 01. 085Yao X et al (2020) An abundant porous biochar material derived from wakame (Undaria pinnatifida) with high adsorption performance for three organic dyes. Biores Technol 318:124082. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 124082Yao B et al (2021) FeIIFeIII layered double hydroxide modified carbon felt cathode for removal of ciprofloxacin in electro-Fenton pro-cess. Environ Res 197:111144. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envres.  2021. 111144Ye S et al (2020) Insights into catalytic removal and separation of attached metals from natural-aged microplastics by magnetic bio-char activating oxidation process. Water Res 179:115876. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. watres. 2020. 115876Yeboah E et al (2020) Method of biochar application affects growth, yield and nutrient uptake of cowpea. Open Agric 5:352–360. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1515/ opag- 2020- 0040Yek PNY et al (2020) Engineered biochar via microwave  CO2 and steam pyrolysis to treat carcinogenic Congo red dye. J Hazard Mater 395:122636. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020.  122636Yetilmezsoy K, Demirel S (2008) Artificial neural network (ANN) approach for modeling of Pb(II) adsorption from aqueous solu-tion by Antep pistachio (Pistacia Vera L.) shells. J Hazard Mater 153:1288–1300. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2007. 09. 092Yıldızlı G et al (2021) Biochar as a biocompatible mild anti-inflam-matory supplement for animal feed and agricultural fields. Chem Biodivers 18(6):e2001002. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ cbdv. 20200  1002Yin F et al (2016) Effects of anaerobic digestion on chlortetracycline and oxytetracycline degradation efficiency for swine manure. Waste Manag 56:540–546. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. wasman.  2016. 07. 020Yin Y et al (2020a) Roles of nxrA-like oxidizers and nirS-like reducers in nitrite conversion during swine manure composting. Biores Technol 297:122426. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019.  122426Yin P et al (2020b) Recycling of waste straw in sorghum for preparation of biochar/(Fe, Ni) hybrid aimed at significant electromagnetic absorbing of low-frequency band. J Market Res 9:14212–14222. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jmrt. 2020. 10. 034Yin Y et al (2021a) Research progress and prospects for using bio-char to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions during composting: a review. Sci Total Environ 798:149294. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv. 2021. 149294Yin Y et al (2021b) Bamboo charcoal enhances cellulase and urease activities during chicken manure composting: roles of the bacte-rial community and metabolic functions. J Environ Sci 108:84–95. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jes. 2021. 02. 007Yoon J-Y et al (2021) Assessment of adsorptive behaviors and proper -ties of grape pomace-derived biochar as adsorbent for removal of cymoxanil pesticide. Environ Technol Innov 21:101242. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. eti. 2020. 101242Yooyen J et al (2015) Increasing yield of soybean by adding biochar. J Environ Res Dev 9:1066Yu Z et al (2017) Effects of manganese oxide-modified biochar com-posites on arsenic speciation and accumulation in an indica rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar. Chemosphere 168:341–349. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. chemo sphere. 2016. 10. 069Yu J et al (2019a) Magnetic nitrogen-doped sludge-derived biochar catalysts for persulfate activation: internal electron transfer mech-anism. Chem Eng J 364:146–159. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej.  2019. 01. 163Yu D et al (2019b) KOH activation of wax gourd-derived carbon mate-rials with high porosity and heteroatom content for aqueous or all-solid-state supercapacitors. J Colloid Interface Sci 537:569–578. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jcis. 2018. 11. 070Yu Z et al (2021a) Optimization of granulation process for binder-free biochar-based fertilizer from digestate and its slow-release performance. Sustainability 13:8573. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/  su131 58573Yu Q et al (2021b) Anaerobic co-digestion of corn stover and chicken manure using continuous stirred tank reactor: the effect of bio -char addition and urea pretreatment. Biores Technol 319:124197. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 124197Yuan Y et al (2017a) Is biochar-manure co-compost a better solution for soil health improvement and  N2O emissions mitigation? Soil Biol Biochem 113:14–25. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. soilb io. 2017.  05. 0252484 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–24851 3Yuan X et al (2017b) Lamellar mesoporous carbon derived from bagasse for the cathode materials of lithium–sulfur batteries. RSC Adv 7:13595–13603. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c6ra2 6531fYuan M et al (2019) Chitosan-derived hybrid porous carbon with the novel tangerine pith-like surface as supercapacitor elec-trode. J Mater Sci 54:14456–14468. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/  s10853- 019- 03911-zYun YM et al (2016) Mitigation of ammonia inhibition by internal dilu-tion in high-rate anaerobic digestion of food waste leachate and evidences of microbial community response. Biotechnol Bioeng 113:1892–1901. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ bit. 25968Zama EF et al (2022) The removal of arsenic from solution through biochar-enhanced precipitation of calcium-arsenic derivatives. Environ Pollut 292:118241. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. envpol.  2021. 118241Zayed G, Winter J (2000) Inhibition of methane production from whey by heavy metals–protective effect of sulfide. Appl Microbiol Bio-technol 53:726–731. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1007/ s0025 30000 336Zhai S et al (2020) Dual resource utilization for tannery sludge: effects of sludge biochars (BCs) on volatile fatty acids (VFAs) production from sludge anaerobic digestion. Biores Technol 316:123903. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123903Zhang Y, Angelidaki I (2015) Counteracting ammonia inhibition dur -ing anaerobic digestion by recovery using submersible microbial desalination cell. Biotechnol Bioeng 112:1478–1482. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1002/ bit. 25549Zhang Z, Chen Y (2020) Effects of microplastics on wastewater and sewage sludge treatment and their removal: a review. Chem Eng J 382:122955. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej. 2019. 122955Zhang L, Sun X (2014) Changes in physical, chemical, and microbio-logical properties during the two-stage co-composting of green waste with spent mushroom compost and biochar. Bioresour Technol 171:274–284. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2014.  08. 079Zhang L, Sun X (2017) Addition of fish pond sediment and rock phos-phate enhances the composting of green waste. Biores Technol 233:116–126. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2017. 02. 073Zhang M, Wang Y (2020) Effects of Fe-Mn-modified biochar addition on anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge: biomethane production, heavy metal speciation and performance stability. Biores Technol 313:123695. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2020. 123695Zhang X et al (2014a) Nitrogen enriched biochar modified by high tem-perature  CO2–ammonia treatment: characterization and adsorp-tion of  CO2. Chem Eng J 257:20–27. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cej. 2014. 07. 024Zhang C et al (2014b) Reviewing the anaerobic digestion of food waste for biogas production. Renew Sustain Ener Rev 38:383–392. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. rser. 2014. 05. 038Zhang J et al (2014c) The use of biochar-amended composting to improve the humification and degradation of sewage sludge. Bioresour Technol 168:252–258. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort  ech. 2014. 02. 080Zhang J et al (2014d) Humification characterization of biochar and its potential as a composting amendment. J Environ Sci 26:390–397. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/ S1001- 0742(13) 60421-0Zhang H et al (2016a) Sulfur-enriched biochar as a potential soil amendment and fertiliser. J Soil Res 55:93–99. https:// doi. org/  10. 1071/ SR152 56Zhang J et al (2016b) Straw biochar hastens organic matter degradation and produces nutrient-rich compost. Biores Technol 200:876–883. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2015. 11. 016Zhang T et al (2017a) Pinecone biomass-derived hard carbon anodes for high-performance sodium-ion batteries. RSC Adv 7:41504–41511. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7ra0 7231gZhang L-Y et al (2017b) Nitrogen-doped microporous carbon: An efficient oxygen reduction catalyst for Zn-air batteries. J Power Sources 359:71–79. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2017. 05.  056Zhang L et al (2018a) Simultaneous and efficient capture of inorganic nitrogen and heavy metals by polyporous layered double hydrox-ide and biochar composite for agricultural nonpoint pollution control. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 10:43013–43030. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acsami. 8b150 49Zhang J et al (2018b) Recent achievements in enhancing anaerobic digestion with carbon-based functional materials. Biores Tech-nol 266:555–567. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018.  07. 076Zhang G et al (2018c) The effects of different biochars on microbial quantity, microbial community shift, enzyme activity, and bio-degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in soil. Geo-derma 328:100–108. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. geode rma. 2018.  05. 009Zhang R et al (2018d) Rheological performance of bio-char modified asphalt with different particle sizes. Appl Sci 8:1665. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ app80 91665Zhang Q et al (2018e) Synthesis of garlic skin-derived 3D hierarchical porous carbon for high-performance supercapacitors. Nanoscale 10:2427–2437. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7nr0 7158bZhang D et al (2018f) Defect-rich N-doped porous carbon derived from soybean for high rate lithium-ion batteries. Appl Surf Sci 451:298–305. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. apsusc. 2018. 04. 251Zhang Y et al (2018g) Honeycomb-like hard carbon derived from pine pollen as high-performance anode material for sodium-ion bat-teries. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 10:42796–42803. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1021/ acsami. 8b131 60Zhang B et al (2019a) Pyrolysis temperature-dependent electron trans-fer capacities of dissolved organic matters derived from wheat straw biochar. Sci Total Environ 696:133895. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2019. 133895Zhang W et al (2019b) Nitrogen-enriched compact biochar-based elec-trode materials for supercapacitors with ultrahigh volumetric performance. J Power Sources 439:227067. https://  doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2019. 227067Zhang Y et al (2019c) Preparation of hierarchical porous carbon from wheat bran for free-standing electrode of high areal capacitance supercapacitor. ChemElectroChem 6:5486–5491. https:// doi. org/  10. 1002/ celc. 20190 1440Zhang J et al (2020a) Evaluation the impact of polystyrene micro and nanoplastics on the methane generation by anaerobic digestion. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 205:111095. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  ecoenv. 2020. 111095Zhang H et al (2020b) Effect of cornstalk biochar immobilized bac-teria on ammonia reduction in laying hen manure composting. Molecules 25:1560. https:// doi. org/ 10. 3390/ molec ules2 50715 60Zhang A et al (2020c) Adsorption of potentially toxic elements in water by modified biochar: a review. J Environ Chem Eng 8:104196. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jece. 2020. 104196Zhang Y et al (2021a) Occurrence, influence and removal strategies of mycotoxins, antibiotics and microplastics in anaerobic digestion treating food waste and co-digestive biosolids: a critical review. Biores Technol 330:124987. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech.  2021. 124987Zhang H et al (2021b) Coeffect of pyrolysis temperature and potassium phosphate impregnation on characteristics, stability, and adsorp-tion mechanism of phosphorus-enriched biochar. Biores Technol. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 126273Zhao Z et al (2015) Enhancing syntrophic metabolism in up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors with conductive carbon mate-rials. Bioresour Technol 191:140–145. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  biort ech. 2015. 05. 007Zhao L et al (2016) Copyrolysis of biomass with phosphate fertilizers to improve biochar carbon retention, slow nutrient release, and 2485 Environmental Chemistry Letters (2022) 20:2385–2485 1 3stabilize heavy metals in soil. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 4:1630–1636. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acssu schem eng. 5b015 70Zhao T et al (2018a) Facile low-temperature one-step synthesis of pomelo peel biochar under air atmosphere and its adsorption behaviors for Ag(I) and Pb(II). Sci Total Environ 640–641:73–79. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. scito  tenv. 2018. 05. 251Zhao C et al (2018b) Biomass-derived N-doped porous carbon as elec-trode materials for Zn-air battery powered capacitive deioniza-tion. Chem Eng J 334:1270–1280. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. cej.  2017. 11. 069Zhao N et al (2019) Direct production of porous carbon nanosheets/particle composites from wasted litchi shell for supercapacitors. J Alloy Compd 788:677–684. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jallc om.  2019. 02. 304Zhao M et al (2021a) Adsorption, separation and recovery properties of blocky zeolite-biochar composites for remediation of cadmium contaminated soil. Chin J Chem Eng. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  cjche. 2021. 10. 020Zhao W et al (2021b) A review of biochar in anaerobic digestion to improve biogas production: performances, mechanisms and eco-nomic assessments. Bioresour Technol 341:125797. https:// doi.  org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 125797Zhao D et al (2021c) Mitigation of acidogenic product inhibition and elevated mass transfer by biochar during anaerobic digestion of food waste. Biores Technol 338:125531. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1016/j. biort ech. 2021. 125531Zhao N et al (2021d) Chlortetracycline hydrochloride removal by different biochar/Fe composites: a comparative study. J Haz-ard Mater 403:123889. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jhazm at. 2020.  123889Zheng K et al (2017) The porous carbon derived from water hyacinth with well-designed hierarchical structure for supercapacitors. J Power Sources 366:270–277. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our.  2017. 09. 034Zheng X-J et al (2020) Assessment of zeolite, biochar, and their com-bination for stabilization of multimetal-contaminated soil. ACS Omega 5:27374–27382. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1021/ acsom ega. 0c037  10Zhi S et al (2019) How methane yield, crucial parameters and micro-bial communities respond to the stimulating effect of antibiotics during high solid anaerobic digestion. Bioresour Technol 283:286–296. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2019. 03. 083Zhou H et al (2018a) Effect of biochar and humic acid on the copper, lead, and cadmium passivation during composting. Biores Tech-nol 258:279–286. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech. 2018.  02. 086Zhou W et al (2018b) From weed to multi-heteroatom-doped honey -comb-like porous carbon for advanced supercapacitors: a gelat-inization-controlled one-step carbonization. J Power Sources 402:203–212. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jpows our. 2018. 09. 044Zhou Y et al (2019a) A novel Fe3O4/graphene oxide/citrus peel-derived bio-char based nanocomposite with enhanced adsorp-tion affinity and sensitivity of ciprofloxacin and sparfloxacin. Biores Technol 292:121951. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. biort ech.  2019. 121951Zhou Y et al (2019b) Analyses of tetracycline adsorption on alkali-acid modified magnetic biochar: site energy distribution considera-tion. Sci Total Environ 650:2260–2266. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j.  scito  tenv. 2018. 09. 393Zhou X et al (2020) Effects of biochar on the chemical changes and phase separation of bio-asphalt under different aging conditions. J Clean Prod 263:121532. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. jclep ro. 2020.  121532Zhu Q et al (2015) Effect of biochar on heavy metal speciation of paddy soil. Water Air Soil Pollut 226:1–10. https:// doi. org/ 10.  1007/ s11270- 015- 2680-3Zhu X et al (2017) A green route to synthesize low-cost and high-per -formance hard carbon as promising sodium-ion battery anodes from sorghum stalk waste. Green Energy Environ 2:310–315. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1016/j. gee. 2017. 05. 004Zhu Z et al (2018) Expanded biomass-derived hard carbon with ultra-stable performance in sodium-ion batteries. J Mater Chem A 6:1513–1522. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1039/ c7ta0 7951fZhu Y et al (2019) Biomass-derived porous carbon prepared from egg white for high-performance supercapacitor electrode materi -als. ChemistrySelect 4:7358–7365. https:// doi. org/ 10. 1002/ slct.  20190 1632Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.