Citation: Villalobos-López, M.A.;Arroyo-Becerra, A.; Quintero-Jiménez,A.; Iturriaga, G. BiotechnologicalAdvances to Improve Abiotic StressTolerance in Crops. Int. J. Mol. Sci.2022 ,23, 12053. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms231912053Academic Editor: Yong-Hwan MoonReceived: 30 August 2022Accepted: 6 October 2022Published: 10 October 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). International Journal of  Molecular SciencesReviewBiotechnological Advances to Improve Abiotic Stress Tolerancein CropsMiguel Angel Villalobos-L ópez1,†, Analilia Arroyo-Becerra1,†, Anareli Quintero-Jim énez2and Gabriel Iturriaga2,*1Laboratorio de Gen ómica Funcional y Biotecnolog ía de Plantas, Centro de Investigaci ón en Biotecnolog ía Aplicada,Instituto Polit écnico Nacional, Ex-Hacienda San Juan Molino Carretera Estatal Km 1.5,Santa In és-Tecuexcomac-Tepetitla 90700, Tlaxcala, Mexico2Divisi ón de Estudios de Posgrado e Investigaci ón, Tecnol ógico Nacional de M éxico/I.T. Roque,Km. 8 Carretera Celaya-Juventino Rosas, Roque, Celaya 38110, Guanajato, Mexico*Correspondence: gabriel.id@roque.tecnm.mx† These authors contributed equally to this work.Abstract: The major challenges that agriculture is facing in the twenty-ﬁrst century are increasingdroughts, water scarcity, ﬂooding, poorer soils, and extreme temperatures due to climate change.However, most crops are not tolerant to extreme climatic environments. The aim in the near future, ina world with hunger and an increasing population, is to breed and/or engineer crops to tolerate abioticstress with a higher yield. Some crop varieties display a certain degree of tolerance, which has beenexploited by plant breeders to develop varieties that thrive under stress conditions. Moreover, a longlist of genes involved in abiotic stress tolerance have been identiﬁed and characterized by moleculartechniques and overexpressed individually in plant transformation experiments. Nevertheless, stresstolerance phenotypes are polygenetic traits, which current genomic tools are dissecting to exploittheir use by accelerating genetic introgression using molecular markers or site-directed mutagenesissuch as CRISPR-Cas9. In this review, we describe plant mechanisms to sense and tolerate adverseclimate conditions and examine and discuss classic and new molecular tools to select and improveabiotic stress tolerance in major crops.Keywords: abiotic stress; osmoprotectants; drought tolerance; effective-microbes; genotyping-by-sequencing; NPBT; plant transformation; QTLs; site-directed mutagenesis; CRISPR; ZFNs1. IntroductionAnthropogenic climate change is remodeling our planet due to an increase in gasemissions and deforestation, creating a greenhouse effect which is dangerously raisingthe Earth’s temperature. A wide list of consequences includes devastating hurricanes,scarce rainfall, migration, and extinction of different species of plants and animals due tothe destruction of their habitats, and the appearance of diseases that affect all species,including humans. All this entails the depletion of natural resources, jeopardizing oursurvival and that of many species and ecosystems [ 1,2]. In fact, global warming is reshapinggeographical species distribution, altering the composition of plant communities [3].Agriculture and food security will suffer a significant impact due to climate change;therefore, new agricultural practices must cope with severe droughts, extreme temperatures,soil erosion and salinity , and devastating floods. In addition, there is an increasing freshwaterscarcity in a world where the human population is growing exponentially and is estimated toaccount for almost 10 thousand million people in 2050. According to experts, food productionshould be double the current amount for that decade [ 4–6]. Therefore, a major technologicaleffort, framed under a sustainable and ecologically sound world policy, is required to with-stand such alarming, predicted conditions. Ultimately , there is a limit as to how far agricultureInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms231912053 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijmsInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 2 of 50can adapt to the changing climate, and a political will to reduce the impact of the burning offossil fuels on the global climate is essential for long-term food security [7].1.1. Abiotic Stress AdaptationsPlants often have to adapt to environments that are unfavorable for growth and de-velopment. Some plants acquired adaptive traits during evolution to deal with extremeenvironments, such as deserts, tundra, or swamps. To withstand these harsh environmentalconditions, plants developed morphological and physiological adaptations, as well as signal-ing pathways that elicit biochemical and molecular mechanisms to survive different stressconditions [ 8]. The stressful environmental factors can be either biotic or abiotic. Abioticstresses mainly include drought, salinity, extreme temperatures, flooding, oxidative stress,nutrient deficiencies, and heavy metal stress [ 9]. Drought is the major cause of crop lossesaround the world and water provision for agriculture was a key element for civilization’ssuccess [ 10,11]. Drought, salinity , cold, and freezing induce osmotic and oxidative stress andincrease intracellular ion concentration, thus leading to reactive oxygen species (ROS) accu-mulation, protein denaturation, membrane disruption, and nucleic acid damage (Figure 1).Figure 1. Plant response mechanisms to abiotic stress; Abbreviations: ROS—reactive oxygen species;CAT—catalase; GR—glutathione reductase; SOD—superoxide dismutase; APX—ascorbate peroxidase.At least three adaptive strategies have evolved in plants to live under drought condi-tions [ 12]. Ephemeral plants are annual and have a short life cycle that allows them to growand develop during the rainy season before forming seeds to escape unfavorable conditions.Another survival strategy is present in Cactaceae and Agavaceae plant families, whichdue to the presence of spikes as modiﬁed leaves, a long root system to capture as muchInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 3 of 50water as possible, their stem/leaves sheltered with a thick waxy cuticle that covers a water-storage parenchyma, and adjusting their photosynthesis system with closed stomata anda C 4-carbon assimilation system, maintain the plant as a water reservoir to avoid waterloss. The last group is true desiccation-tolerant plants, better known as resurrection plants,which can survive long periods of even decades without water to restart their metabolismand growth in a few hours after being again in contact with water (Figure 1) [13].Plant desiccation-tolerance was a key trait to conquering land environments, althoughit is rare in vegetative tissues it is present in mature seeds but is lost during germination [ 14].Some genetic and biochemical components for drought tolerance are shared between seedsand resurrection plants and to some extent in non-tolerant plants displaying hardening oracclimation phenotypes [ 15]. These latter plants require the expression of stress tolerancegenes for a gradual adaptation to harsh conditions. Cultivated plant varieties are usuallymore sensitive to abiotic stress than their wild-type relatives because breeding selection foryield and plant size traits are not necessarily linked to stress tolerance genes.A water deﬁcit reduces photosynthesis by inducing stomata closure and inhibitingelectron transport reactions and oxygen production, thus leading to ROS accumulation,which causes damage to the photosynthetic reaction centers [ 16]. Plant adaptations to pho-tosynthesis damage under drought stress are limited to a few plants containing C 4carbonassimilation metabolism and crassulacean acid metabolism, which minimize photorespira-tion and a more efﬁcient CO 2harvest [ 17]. Gene transfer experiments using transcriptionfactors and Calvin-Cycle enzyme genes might soon improve photosynthesis and yieldunder abiotic stress conditions [18,19].Another important adaptation to water stress involves root architectural plasticity(Figure 1). Plants with longer roots usually display increased yield since they have a higherwater use efﬁciency measured as biomass production to water use ratio [ 20]. Duringdrought, ABA signals the SNAC1 transcription factor, which induces stomata closure, shootgrowth arrest, and induces root growth, whereas lateral root growth is reduced due to theexpression of the MYB96 transcription factor and microRNA miRNA393 [21,22].1.2. Physiological and Biochemical ResponsesProtective mechanisms against abiotic stress include osmotic adjustment, antioxidantmetabolism, and maintenance of cell membrane stability (Figure 1) [ 23]. Plant cells activelyaccumulate solutes when cellular dehydration occurs as part of osmotic adjustment [ 24].Metabolic-compatible compounds can accumulate in large quantities and are major drivers ofosmotic adjustment under salt, drought, and cold stresses, helping with membrane stabiliza-tion, protection of the quaternary structure of proteins, and neutralization of toxic compoundsunder stressful conditions. It is the common strategy adopted by many organisms to com-bat environmental stress [ 25]. These compatible compounds, known as osmoprotectants orosmolytes, are low molecular weight water-soluble compounds. The most common but notexclusive compatible solutes are sugars (sucrose and trehalose), polyols (mannitol and sorbitol),polyamines (putrescine, spermine, and spermidine), amino acids (glutamine and proline), andquaternary amines (glycine-betaine and choline-O-sufate) [ 26]. For instance, spinach, sugarbeet, and amaranth accumulate high levels of glycine-betaine, which is synthesized by twoenzymatic steps. First, choline monooxygenase converts choline into betaine aldehyde, andthen betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase synthesizes glycine-betaine [ 27]. These enzymes arefound in the chloroplast stroma. Proline is an osmolyte with an active role in plant growthand development in many plants, such as maize, rice, and legumes, and is synthesized inthe cytoplasm through two major pathways. In the glutamate pathway , it is produced fromglutamate by D1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthetase and D1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate reductaseenzymes; in the ornithine pathway by ornithine-delta-aminotransferase, producing glutamicsemialdehyde and D1-pyrroline-5-carboxylate, which is converted to proline [ 28]. Anotherimportant class of compatible solutes is sugar alcohols, also known as polyols, found in a widerange of species such as grapevine, apple, coffee, berries, and olives. Sorbitol and mannitol aresynthesized by specific polyol dehydrogenases either from glucose-6-phosphate or mannose-Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 4 of 506-phosphate, respectively , and protect cells against osmotic stress and metabolic imbalancebetween source and sink plant organs [29].A peculiar molecule is the disaccharide trehalose, which functions as an osmoprotectantagainst heat, salt, and drought stresses and is found at high concentrations in certain archaeaand eubacteria species, some fungi and lower invertebrates, and desiccation-tolerant plantssuch as the lycophyte Selaginella lepidophylla and in some rare Poaceae family members [ 30].There are five biosynthetic pathways, and the most common in several organisms, includingplants, is a two-step process, where initially trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS) condensesglucose-6-phosphate and UDP-glucose into trehalose-6-phosphate, which is converted totrehalose by trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (TPP). Interestingly, both TPS and TPP arealso present in most plants and are encoded by multi-gene families; however, trehalose isalmost undetectable [ 31]. The intermediate compound trehalose-6-phosphate also acts asa signal molecule involved in growth, development, and crop yield [32,33].The non-toxic nitrogenous polycationic molecules named polyamines, usually boundto nucleic acids and proteins, accumulate in all organisms, and are involved in membranestability and ROS scavenging [ 34]. Some authors consider polyamines as phytohormonessince they participate in various plant functions, including regulating cell division, mem-brane and cell wall stabilization, growth, ﬂower and fruit development, and adaptation tobiotic and abiotic stresses [35].Oligosaccharides such as fructans, staquiose, and rafﬁnose are involved in cold ac-climation and freezing tolerance in a wide range of plants [ 36]. For instance, in spite oflacking epidermal tissues, Physcomirium patens moss displays freezing tolerance due to theaccumulation of the trisaccharide theanderose [37].Major cultivated crops such as wheat, rice, and maize do not accumulate osmolytesat signiﬁcant concentrations [ 27]. However, it has been shown that the overexpression ofproline, glycine-betaine, fructans, and trehalose biosynthetic genes leads to abiotic stress-tolerant phenotypes and plants with higher biomass and yield [ 38]. In addition to their roleas osmolytes, all these compounds are also involved in inhibiting ROS accumulation andprotecting the photosynthetic apparatus.Similar to osmotic adjustment, antioxidant defense systems are also important to stresstolerance mechanisms (Figure 1). Drought, cold, heat, and salt stress induce the formation ofreactive oxygen species (ROS) such as hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2) and superoxide (O 2 ) [39].These ROS are extremely toxic compounds, which can severely damage cell membranes,proteins, and DNA, eventually provoking cell death. In order to combat oxidative damage,plants utilize antioxidant defense mechanisms including enzymes such as superoxidedismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), peroxidase (POD), catalase (CAT), andglutathione reductase (GR) [ 40] (Figure 1). In this regard, sugars also act as ROS quenchersand exert protective roles and stress tolerance when speciﬁc sugar types are localized inspeciﬁc cellular compartments or in close vicinity membranes [ 41]. Crops with enhancedascorbate accumulation promote abiotic stress tolerance either by engineering increasedbiosynthesis, enhanced recycling, or modulating regulatory factors [42].Heat during summer days and at midday is a major stress that plants cope with byaccumulating heat-shock proteins (HSP) to alleviate cellular damage (Figure 1). HSPs area broad protein family of molecular chaperones that comprises HSP100, HSP90, HSP70,HSP60, HSP40, and HSP20 that prevent and restore protein aggregation and misfoldingand are present in bacteria and animals as well [ 43]. Overexpression of different HSPscan partially alleviate heat stress in plants; however, engineered expression of upstreamelements in the signaling pathway, as exempliﬁed by the HSP transcription factor (HSF),which confers a better response, also induces tolerance to multiple stresses [44].As an additional tool to cope with abiotic stress, plants acquired a group of low molecularweight (10–30 kDa) proteins to protect against subcellular damage caused by drought, salt,or cold stress. These are named late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins rich in glycineand lysine and have a hydrophilic and disordered nature, which under stress conditionsreorders and forms repeated -helixed stretches (Figure 1) [ 45]. LEAs were originally found inInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 5 of 50mature seed embryos but, later on, were also identified in stressed vegetative tissues of mostplants and even in some desiccation-tolerant invertebrates [ 14,46]. They are classified intofive families according to their protein similarity and are localized in the nuclei and cytoplasm,interacting with cellular proteins to prevent unfolding or stabilize membranes during osmoticstress [ 45]. Either an ABA-dependent or an ABA-independent pathway can induce LEAgenes. For instance, two well-studied cases in Arabidopsis are the RD29A and RD29B LEAsprotein genes. The RD29B gene promoter has an ABA-regulated element, the ABRE box(CACGTG), whereas the RD29A promoter has an ABA-independent dehydration-responsiveelement, the DRE box (TACCGACAT), induced by desiccation salt and cold stresses [ 47]. Theoverexpression of the pepper CaLEA1 in Arabidopsis confers osmotic stress tolerance [48].Water transport along the plant from the soil into the roots is a key element for plantdevelopment and physiology (Figure 1). Aquaporins function by regulating water trafﬁck-ing through cell membranes in normal and stressful conditions but can also transport smallsolutes such as monosaccharides, polyols, silicon, and boron or gases such as ammonia orcarbon dioxide [ 49]. There are between 25 and 30 kDa proteins forming transmembranetetramers and belonging to the major intrinsic protein (MIP) superfamily with membersin most organisms [ 50]. In plants, aquaporins are classiﬁed into seven subfamilies accord-ing to their sequence similarity, most of them plasma membrane intrinsic proteins (PIPs),tonoplast intrinsic proteins (TIPs), and nodulin 26-like intrinsic proteins (NIPs) [51].Together with drought, soil salinity is severely threatening agriculture since around20% of total cultivated land and 50% of irrigated ﬁelds worldwide are affected by salin-ization [ 52]. Salt stress inhibits plant growth and yield, germination, photosynthesis, andtranspiration, and alters ion homeostasis (K+/Na+) caused by the combined effects ofosmotic stress and ion toxicity, mainly due to Na+and Cl accumulation in the plantcytosol (Figure 1) [ 53]. Plant osmotic stress is dealt with the aid of osmoprotectants, andantioxidant molecules previously discussed. According to their response to salt stress,plants are classiﬁed as salt-tolerant or halophytes, and salt-sensitive or glycophytes [ 54].When Na+levels rise excessively in the plant, the K+uptake is inhibited, the latter beingan essential ion for photosynthesis and metabolism as an enzyme cofactor. Hence, plantcells need to either extrude Na+from the cell, accumulate it on the vacuole, which alsomaintains cell turgor, or transport Na+to a specialized organ such as the trichome in somehalophytes [ 53]. Salt trafﬁc requires transporters in plasma or vacuole membranes. Severaltransporter genes have been characterized [ 55]. The plasma membrane symporters HKT1 inleaves and ATK1 in roots are responsible for pumping K+into the cell. Another signiﬁcantpump is the Salt Overly Sensitive (SOS1) antiporter, which extrudes Na+and transports H+into the cell [ 56]. SOS1 is regulated by phosphorylation of SOS2 protein kinase and Ca++sensor SOS3. On the vacuole membrane, Ca+regulates Na+compartmentalization by theNHX1 antiporter and helps H+exit. The other key types of antiporters are V-ATPase andV-PPase, which are responsible for introducing H+into the vacuolar membrane [55].1.3. Gene Regulation and Signal TransductionComplex signaling cascades are induced in response to abiotic stress and are integratedinto multistep phosphorelay signaling that includes both hormonal and environmental cuesinto a common pathway [ 57]. The different abiotic stresses can trigger common signalingpathways [ 58]. Plant sensing to abiotic stress initiates with membrane or intracellular os-mosensors that induce a shift in intracellular Ca2+and production of secondary messengerssuch as inositol phosphate (IP) and ROS, leading to activation of different protein kinasessuch as calcium-dependent protein kinases (CDPKs), calcium/calmodulin-dependent pro-tein kinases (CCaMKs), mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK), or phosphatases thatcan phosphorylate/dephosphorylate speciﬁc transcription factors, which in turn regulatestress-responsive genes [ 59]. There is an intricate crosstalk among various plant hormones,namely, abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA), cytokinins (CK), andethylene (ET), in coordination with transcription factors such as MYB, bLHL, WRKY, bZIP ,NAC, and DREB, to activate or repress stress responses [60] (Figure 1).Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 6 of 50ABA is a major player in coordinating plant stress responses. Several abiotic stresses,such as drought and high salinity, trigger ABA biosynthesis, which is responsible for keyplant processes such as root growth, stomatal closure, and seed germination. The coreregulatory pathway of ABA signaling has been identiﬁed [ 58]. ABA interacts with the regu-latory component of the ABA receptor, which in turn inhibits phosphatase type 2C (PP2C),promoting the liberation of SNF1-related protein kinase 2 (SnRK2). The activated SnRK2sphosphorylate downstream effectors to regulate multiple biological processes, such astranscription, RNA processing, epigenetic modiﬁcation, and ﬂowering time regulation [ 61].JA, a class of fatty acid-derived molecules, also plays an important role in promotingplant response to abiotic stress. It participates in several signal transduction pathwaysto induce cell protection from the toxic effects of salt stress, drought stress, heavy metaltoxicity, micronutrient toxicity, freezing stress, ozone stress, and light stress [62].CK acts as a negative regulator of salt and drought tolerance and counteracts ABA andStrigolactones (SLs), a carotenoid-derived phytohormone, which has roles in root develop-ment, shoot branching, leaf senescence, plant communication with beneﬁcial microbes, andadaptation to cold, saline, and drought stresses [63].Several other molecules are novel plant growth regulators, acting in signaling cascadesand cross-talk with regulatory machinery. The precursor of heterocyclic compounds suchas chlorophyll, 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), improves abiotic stress tolerance, growth,and yield by inducing antioxidant synthesis, nutrient uptake, and photosynthesis [ 64].Citric acid/citrate (CA) has similar effects and relieves heavy metal stress by inducingchelation and precipitation of metal ions [ 65]. Nitric oxide (NO) is a redox-active gasthat at low concentrations can signal abiotic stress responses in plants by interacting withcalcium and hydrogen sulphide [ 66]. Melatonin works as an antioxidant against ROS topromote photosynthesis, rooting, growth, and biotic and abiotic stress tolerance, and itsmembrane receptor has been identiﬁed [67]. Recent studies have revealed the presence ofhormone-like peptides and their corresponding receptors, involved in signaling toleranceto abiotic stress [ 68]. Interestingly, the SCREW-NUT peptide-receptor pair counteracts theABA- and pathogen-induced stomata closure [69].High-throughput sequencing has revealed an extensive number of miRNAs in plantgenomes as key regulators in plant development and mediating biotic and abiotic stressresponses [ 70]. Outstandingly, another emerging area of stress tolerance is epigenetics,which deals with genetic changes in chromatin functions that are not related to changes inDNA sequence (Figure 1). Epigenetic modifications, such as DNA methylation and histoneacetylation or phosphorylation, prepare chromatin accessibility for transcription machinery,inducing different chromatin conformations for stress-responsive gene expression [ 71]. Inaddition to DNA and histone modifications, multiple long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) arethe top emerging participants in abiotic stress responses, regulating transcription factors,numerous miRNAs, and stress-responsive mRNAs [ 72]. The active changes in epigeneticmodifications on stress-responsive genes open or close the chromatin accession to tran-scriptional or posttranscriptional regulatory machinery. For instance, HDA6 deacetylase isa negative regulator of the PDC1 and ALDH2B7 genes and thus represses acetate biosynthe-sis. Under drought, the HDA6 enzyme dissociates from the PDC1 and ALDH2B7 genes toactivate the acetate pathway. Acetate connects the plant’s ability to adapt to drought stresswith metabolism, epigenetic regulation, and JA signaling [73].1.4. Effective MicrobesRhizosphere microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi promote plant growth and yieldbut also have an important role in abiotic stress tolerance enhancement in plants (Figures 1 and2c). Plant-microbe interactions signal molecular networks that modulate phytohormone statusand gene expression in plants, inducing osmolyte and nutrient accumulation, antioxidant andproton transport machinery , and ion compartmentalization that elicits stress-responsive path-ways [ 74–76]. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) can synthesize phytohormonessuch as indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), an auxin that induces root and shoot growth, or cytokininsInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 7 of 50that promote cell division and differentiation [ 77]. PGPR can also induce plant accumulationof ABA, enhancing the expression of drought tolerance genes that render osmoprotectants andK+accumulation, decrease in electrolyte leakage, and increase ROS scavenging capacity [ 78].Plant inoculation with PGPR that contains 1-Aminocycloprpane-1-Carboxylate (ACC) deami-nase reduces ethylene and promotes plant growth and yield under salt stress conditions [ 79].Siderophore produced by PGBR facilitates atmospheric nitrogen fixation, phosphate solubi-lization, and helps nutrient mobilization [ 80]. Exopolysaccharides (EPS) from PGPR aid inthe formation of biofilms to keep soil moisture and protect plant roots under water scarcityconditions [ 81]. Another important group of soil microorganisms that interact with plantsare Trichoderma and arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi that also mitigate abiotic stress bypromoting root growth, membrane stability , and water and nutrient uptake [ 82,83]. Throughtriggering phytohormone signaling, these fungi activate plant aquaporins and membrane trans-porters gene-expression, improve photosynthesis by scavenging ROS, and induce osmolyteaccumulation in plant cells to maintain water use efficiency under stress conditions [83].Figure 2. Crop breeding classic techniques and molecular tools. ( a) Conventional plant breeding.Pollen from a plant with a desired trait is transferred to the ﬂowers of another variety with otherdesirable characteristic. Eventually, the desired trait(s) will appear in a new variety of plants throughselection. ( b) Grafting and roostooks. Grafting is a special type of asexual plant propagation, whereInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 8 of 50a section of a plant (scion) is joined to another plant (rootstock), allowing it to grow as a single plantsharing a uniﬁed vascular system. To combine two groups of desired characteristics, usually, bothscion and rootstock sources become from different plant varieties. ( c) Effective microbes. Plant andmicrobe interactions involve highly sophisticated symbioses that confer stress tolerance. PGPRs canproduce antioxidants, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase, cytokines, auxineindoleacetic acid (IAA), exopolysaccharides, siderophores, that inhibit absicic acid (ABA), reactiveoxygen species (ROS), and ethylene negative effects. Some bacteria can also produce compoundsto increase the solubility and uptake of nutrients from soil or synthetize osmoprotectans that canimprove drought responses to plants. Additionally, some fungi help plants by increasing water andnutrient uptake. ( d) Plant mutation breeding. It is induced by physical stimulations (X-rays, andparticles, fast neutrons, and ultraviolet light), or chemical treatments (ethyl methanesulfonate)that generate chromosomal changes that cause random mutations. ( e)Agrobacterium tumefaciens andbiolistic mediated plant genetic modiﬁcation breeding. P: promotor; T: teminator. (1) Transgenesis:one or more components such as gene, P , and T that come from sexually incompatible organisms(2) Cisgenesis: all components come from the same original gene (P , gene, and T) isolated from thesame species or a sexually compatible organism; (3) Intragenesis: uses one or more components(such as gene, P or T) from different genes of the same species or a sexually compatible organism.(f) Mitogenome transformation/edition. It is carried out through transcription activator-like editingnucleases (TALEN) mediated nuclear transformation. ( g) Plastome (plastid genome) transforma-tion/edition. Chloroplast transformation has been used for: (1) Improvement of the catalytic activityof the RUBISCO enzyme, (2) maximize carbon ﬁxation (Calvin cycle) (3) insertion of cyanobacteriatransporters, (4) edition focused on different components related to the DNA damage response of thegenome, among other applications.Trichoderma atroviride inoculation diminishes drought effects in maize seedlings byinducing antioxidant machinery [ 84]. Moreover, combined inoculation with Trichoderma andPseudomonas minimized the impact of a low watering regime in rice and upregulated geneslinked with enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant reactions that helped plant survivalunder stress [ 85]. Recently, a collection of Trichoderma harzianum mutants obtained bymutagenesis with ethyl methanesulfonate enhanced drought tolerance in Jalapeño pepperplants, phosphorus assimilation, and antagonism against phytopathogenic fungi [ 86]. Thus,all these results emphasize that the inoculation of growing plants with microorganismformulations, also known as biofertilizers, has a strategic potential in cultivating cropsunder abiotic stress conditions.2. Molecular Tools2.1. Classic Techniques2.1.1. Plant BreedingThe need for more food production and the intrinsic curiosity of man culminated withthe domestication of important crops (about 1200 years ago) and the application of empiricplant breeding processes by the selection of desired traits [ 87]. However, only 200 hundredyears ago, plant breeding started to be used in a systematic way to improve yields andto select the presence of desired characteristics [ 88]. The Mendel laws provided the basicrules for starting the breeding of crops, but it was only until the early twentieth centurythat the ﬁrst hybrids were developed that improved agriculture’s yield. An importantinnovative process for plant breeding was the Green Revolution in the 1960s, developedby Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug, which signiﬁcantly increased agricultural productionby breeding new high-yielding cereals such as dwarf wheat and rice varieties used incombination with chemical fertilizers, pesticides, mechanical irrigation, and machinery.The generation of new varieties by conventional plant breeding requires either se-lecting plants with desirable traits or combining qualities from two closely related plantsthrough selective breeding [ 89]. Pollen from a plant with a desired trait is transferredto the ﬂowers of other varieties with a new advantageous characteristic. Eventually, thedesired trait(s) will appear in a new variety of plants through offspring selection. However,Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 9 of 50this is not an easy task because DNA from the parents recombines randomly, and the de-sired traits may be linked with undesirable traits. Traditional strategies to insert a desiredcharacteristic in a ﬁrst-class cultivar involve the introgression of associated alleles acrossat least six generations of consecutive selection. For instance, the insertion of an abioticstress-resistance trait into a high-yielding cultivar begins with their cross with an abioticstress-resistant cultivar. Then, recurrent backcrossing with the elite ancestor is required tomaintain the genetic potential of the elite cultivar besides preserving the recently importedresistance allele (Figure 2a). Typically, the entire procedure requires several generationsto ﬁx the resistance allele in the elite background [ 90]. Thus, the required time to releasea new crop variety takes on average 12–15 years [91], depending on the crop.Plant breeding involves the following two key steps: the generation or expansionof new variations and the selection and ﬁxation of desirable genotypes [ 87]. Methodssuch as hybridization, induced mutation, chromosome manipulation, F1 hybrids, andthe transgenic approach, among others, have been used to create variation. Initially, theselection was supported essentially by the phenotypic appraisal of target traits, easilydistinguishable by the eye. More recently, with the advent of modern selection methods,traceability of hidden traits has become possible. On the other hand, for selection andgeneration advancement, methods such as simple phenotypic selection, recurrent selection,marker-assisted selection (MAS), genomic selection, and heritability and genetic gain afterselection are used, among others.Modern breeding for major crops requires the use of molecular markers, where DNAmarkers such as RFLP , SSR, AFLP , RAPD, or SNP are the most frequently used [ 92]. How-ever, to develop trait-linked markers, segregating populations for genotyping by sequenc-ing the target traits and reliable phenotyping methods are indispensable [ 93]. Molecularmarkers can be enforced to marker-assisted selection (MAS), which capitalizes on thegenetic correlation between target gene(s) and phenotypes. An important condition prior toMAS is the construction of a molecular genetic map and also the detection of the target trait-linked markers. It is calculated that plant breeders working with conventional phenotypicselection should test from 1.0 to 16.7 times more breeding lines in comparison to breedersadopting MAS. To test such a number of lines is important to ensure the introduction ofone or more superior genotypes, relying on genotypic superiority, selection pressure, andheritability level of traits. Hence, MAS can signiﬁcantly decrease the time and resourcesrequired to accomplish a selection goal for heritability traits of low to moderate valueswhen the selection intensity is high [94].Essential agronomic features, such as stress tolerance and crop yield, are governedby polygenes, which exert reﬁned effects and are regulated by the environment. Suchcharacteristics are known as quantitative traits, and the segregating loci as quantitativetrait loci (QTLs). In the case of quantitative traits, the fundamental procedure is to detectmarkers linked to the quantitative trait via QTL [ 92,95–98]. Moreover, many importantQTLs from crop species have been cloned thanks to the increasing availability of wholegenome sequences. Therefore, QTL mapping surged as single-marker mapping but hasnow become interval mapping thanks to the use of multiple marker-based approaches. Theaccumulated information related to QTLs is available from several public databases, anda robust compilation of available databases of genomic resources for plant breeding wasrecently published [88].Crop phenomics constitutes a new area of development for plant breeding, with con-stant technical innovations arriving. These high-throughput phenotypic technologies arecrucial tools to accelerate the advancement of genetic gain in breeding programs. Themassive phenotypic data collection through diverse sensors (crop morphology, structure,and physiological status from cell to the whole plant) is an important part of crop phenotyp-ing, although the statistical integration of such data (phenomics analysis) is an importantchallenge for the optimization of this strategy [99].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 10 of 502.1.2. Grafting and RootstocksPlant grafting is one of the most valuable tools against soil-borne diseases and bioticor abiotic stress factors. Grafting allows for higher yields under stressful conditions,an extension of the cultivation period, lower use of fertilizers and agrochemicals, broad useof phytogenetic resources as rootstocks, and no need for crop rotation [99–103].Grafting is a special type of asexual plant propagation where a section of a plant (scion)is joined to another plant (rootstock), allowing it to grow as a single plant sharing a uniﬁedvascular system [ 104]. In order to combine two groups of desired characteristics, usuallyboth scion and rootstock sources are from different plant varieties. The re-establishmentof the new plant entity starts with tissue connection between the rootstock and the scionat the grafting points, it continues with a dynamic cell division phase that results in thedevelopment of a callus and common cell wall, and it ends with the establishment ofa unique vasculature system [103,105] (Figure 2b).Important fruit crops are frequently propagated by grafting methods, such as ap-ples, avocados, peaches, citrus, apricots, cherries, plums, and almonds [ 104,106], and alsoconifers [ 107], among others. Only a few decades ago, vegetable crops were incorpo-rated into the grafting practice [ 101,103,108,109]. Depending on the required situation,seed companies and breeders have used different rootstocks with the appropriate char-acteristics [ 110,111]. The trans-grafting method mixes classical grafting protocols withthe genetic engineering of plants. The trans-grafting method comprises the grafting ofa non-genetically modiﬁed scion onto a genetically altered rootstock. The scion obtainsbeneﬁts and traits conferred by transgenes in the rootstock, but the end products, suchas fruits, do not contain the transgene and hence are not genetically modiﬁed [ 112,113].Another innovation is micrografting, which involves the in vitro grafting of small shootapices or lateral buds onto decapitated rootstock seedlings [110,114,115].The molecular basis of grafting signaling is not fully understood, but recent researchsuggests that different plant hormones, proteins, epigenetic events, and several types ofRNA could be responsible for changes in scion [103,113,115–120].2.1.3. Random MutationsRandom mutagenesis is an essential tool to enhance crop diversity. The use of randommutagenesis has been widely accepted; besides that, it has no regulatory restrictions. In-duced mutations can be generated by the use of physical mutagens such as X-rays, gammarays (cobalt-60 being the most common source of radiation), and neutrons [121–127]. More-over, to induce mutagenesis, chemical mutagens, including alkylating agents such as ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS), intercalating agents (such as ethidium bromide), and base analogs(such as bromouracil), can be used [ 121,128,129]. Nevertheless, physical mutagens are usedmore frequently as compared to chemical mutagens. Chemical agents, such as EMS, mayresult in more frequent mutations, but an important advantage of radiation over chemicalmutagenesis is the fact that it induces a higher proportion of mutations that substantiallyaffect gene functions (e.g., the deletion of a complete gene), thus resulting in more loss-of-function mutations related to target traits with fewer mutations per genome [ 125,130,131].For both physical and chemical mutagenesis, the most utilized plant materials are theirpropagules (such as seeds and meristematic cells), tissues, and organs (cuttings, pollen,tissue-cultured calli), and in some cases, whole plants are also exposed [122] (Figure 2d).Mutation induction is a powerful tool for creating new and novel plant germplasm [ 132].Radiation-induced mutation, also known as plant mutation breeding, is the most widelyused method to improve direct mutant varieties in a faster way in comparison with thelaborious and time-consuming traditional plant breeding [125,127,133].In vitro selection for plant mutation breeding can be used to obtain plant genotypeswith tolerance to adverse environmental biotic or abiotic factors such as drought, highsalinity, or even pathogens, in accordance with the selective media used [ 121,122,134].Biological materials exposed to mutagens can be trustworthy and easily screened in a com-paratively small space under in vitro conditions, in comparison to the use of a greenhouseInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 11 of 50and ﬁeld. Puriﬁed lines of interest can be massively propagated or used for breedingpurposes (Figure 2d).2.1.4. Plant Transformation: Biolistics and AgrobacteriumPlant genetic transformation refers to the generation of transgenic plants (transgenics),which harbor extra, stably integrated, and expressed foreign gene(s) generally from transspecies (Figure 2e) [ 135,136]. These modiﬁed plants are generally named genetically modi-ﬁed organisms (GMOs). The complete process comprising the introduction, integration,and expression of foreign gene(s) in the host is termed genetic transformation or transge-nesis [ 137]. Together, the development and application of molecular genetic engineering,gene transfer methods, and in vitro tissue culture techniques have allowed for the efﬁcientgenetic transformation of a broad diversity of crop plants [138,139].Introducing DNA into plant cells is a key point for the generation of stable trans-genic plants as well as transient transformation. Various gene transfer methods, suchas the Agrobacterium system, physicochemical uptake of DNA, liposome encapsulation,protoplast electroporation, microinjection, DNA injection into intact plants, incubation ofseeds with DNA, pollen tube pathway, the use of laser microbeam, electroporation intotissues/embryos, silicon carbide ﬁber method, particle bombardment, and “in planta”transformation, have been developed [ 139,140]. Among these, Agrobacterium and biolisticmethods have been widely used for plant genetic transformation due to their efﬁciency andhandiness [ 141–147] (Figure 2e). However, the transformation efﬁciency varies accordingto the plant species and cultivar.Biolistic transformation (also called particle bombardment) consists of forcing DNAmolecules into plant cells using high pressure as a physical medium. Contrasting with planttransformation mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens, plant transformation mediatedby biolistic does not rely on host genotype or receptivity. The ﬁrst successful particle bom-bardment system for plant cells was established in onion [ 148] and was quickly followed inmultiple models and other recalcitrant crop species such as wheat, rice, and maize [ 149].The integration of exogenous DNA into the genome arises by both non-homologous andhomologous recombination [ 150]. Particle bombardment-mediated transformation is themost preferred method in experiments that demand rapid analysis and transient expres-sions, such as promoter analysis, protein localization, transcription factor characterization,pathway elucidation, hormonal regulation of genes, and promoter component identiﬁca-tion [ 146]. Particle bombardment can deliver the preferred DNA into both nuclear andorganellar genomes. For instance, chloroplasts in higher plants and chloroplasts as well asmitochondria in algae were successfully transformed by the biolistic genetic transformationapproach [ 151–155]. Another difference between both methods for transformation is thatAgrobacterium-mediated transformation can integrate from one to three copies of donorDNA, while the biolistic method can integrate multiple copies [156].The biolistic machinery requires gene gun equipment attached to a helium tank ﬁlledat high pressure. DNA coated onto the gold or tungsten carriers (microprojectile) isshot into the recipient target tissue at high velocity by a gene gun. The microprojectilepasses through the cell, while the coated DNA stays within the cell [ 155]. In addition tosuccessfully delivering tungsten/gold particles coated with DNA, particle bombardment isalso used to deliver whole viral particles, RNA molecules, and even bacterial cells such asA. tumefaciens.In contrast with traditional breeding, plant transformation techniques introduce onlythe isolated gene(s) of agricultural relevance, the 25 bp T-DNA borders (if Agrobacteriumis used), and a selectable marker, without co-transfer of unwanted genes from the donor.However, if the selectable marker is co-transformed into a separate plasmid, both genes canbe segregated after back-crossing [ 157,158]. In addition, homologous sequences to T-DNAare naturally present in many plant species without any altered phenotype, includingedible plants such as sweet potatoes [ 159,160]. As a consequence, transgenesis has arisenas a supplementary tool to perform single-gene breeding or transgenic breeding of crops.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 12 of 50The recipient genotype is minimally disturbed, only to the lowest degree, which eliminatesthe need for repeated backcrosses [ 144]. GMOs have been created using foreign genes fromdiverse sources, such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, insects, humans, and other animals, andfrom unrelated plants. More recently, DNA obtained by chemical synthesis has also beenintroduced to plant cells.Among public opinion, there is a certain rejection of the use of transgenics, alludingto the fact of using genes from distant species that normally could not carry out a sexualcross. GMOs social debate, regulation, and risk assessment are out of the scope of thepresent review ([ 161–165] for further reading). About this concern, there are alternativesto traditional transgeneses, such as intragenesis and cisgenesis [ 166] (Figure 2e). Bothstrategies use genetic material from the same species that is going to be transformed orfrom very close genetic pools or varieties. In addition, plants modiﬁed by intragenesis orcisgenesis must not contain sequences such as selectable marker genes or carrier vectorfragments. The difference between both strategies lies in the fact that cisgenesis respectsthe genetic context of the gene to be introduced (promoter, exons, introns, and terminator),while intragenesis allows the use of promoters, exons, introns, and terminators fromdifferent genes of the same species.Different molecular tools have been developed to facilitate the design and subsequentconstruction of the desired transgene or synthetic gene. Starting from restriction enzymesor the gateway system to newer protocols such as the one-step isothermal in vitro recom-bination that allows the enzymatic assembly of DNA molecules of up to several hundredkilobases [ 167]. Other toolkits have been built, such as the GoldenGate or the GoldenBraidsystems [ 168–170], which are strategies based on the use of IIS-type restriction enzymesand on offering a wide variety of promoters, terminators, markers, or reporters made fromreusable pieces of standardized DNA. Synthetic genes constructed in this way can be usedto promote constitutive or inducible expression, gene silencing, protein-protein interactions,or expression of multiple genes, among other applications.The cellular totipotency in the plant kingdom and the ability of A. tumefaciens (a gram-negative soilborne bacterium) to infect plant cells and to modify them at the geneticlevel have been combined to open up a new ﬁeld in plant biotechnology, transgenicplant biology [ 143,171,172]. The identiﬁcation of the bacterium A. tumefasciens as thecausal agent of the generation of tumors in the tissues of various plant species markedthe beginning of the study of the biology of Agrobacterium. Further studies identiﬁedanA. tumefaciens plasmid (Ti plasmid) as responsible for the tumor-inducing process,which contains all the necessary genes to infect and transfer the genetic information toplant cells. Afterward, the transferred DNA (T-DNA) region was identiﬁed in a plasmid(Ti plasmid). The T-DNA is not only directed and integrated into the recipient genome,but its opines and cytokinin genes are also transcriptionally expressed at high levels inthe plant cells, these latter genes being responsible for the crown-gall phenotype. It wasalso established that the T-DNA fragment harbors speciﬁc 25-bp long signals, known asRB (right border) and LB (left border). Both RB and LB are the key elements for DNAtransfer and thus the genes within them are dispensable and can be removed to yielda ‘disarmed’ vector leading to transformed plants without tumors. The development oftransgenic plants using A. tumefaciens was conducted in tobacco by several independentresearch groups [ 173–175]. A valuable tool for plant transformation was the construction ofthe pBIN19 binary vector, which has been widely used [ 176,177]. Since then, an increasingnumber of important crops and a great variety of plant species have been geneticallytransformed by using A. tumefaciens [ 178]. Depending on the plant species, differentexplant sources may be used to be transformed [139,144,179].2.2. New Plant Breeding Techniques (NPBT)2.2.1. Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS) and “Omics”Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) allows for simultaneous marker discovery andgenotyping approaches, and delivers many beneﬁts, including the availability of ﬂank-Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 13 of 50ing DNA sequence information, high-sample throughput, and high resolution, amongothers [ 180]. Next-generation next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology has evolvedrapidly, which has allowed the cost of DNA sequencing to be signiﬁcantly reduced, makingGBS increasingly accessible to a greater diversity of species with large genomes [ 181]. GBShas signiﬁcantly increased the availability and applicability of molecular markers for cropimprovement [ 182]. Candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identiﬁed by GBSmay be linked with desired traits with the help of genome-wide association study (GWAS)and/or QTL mapping [ 92]. The identiﬁed SNPs are used in marker-assisted breeding forboth to track gene introgression or even to validate trait-linked haplotypes in importantagricultural plants (Figure 3a).Figure 3. New plant breeding techniques. ( a) Genotyping by sequencing. This method allowssimultaneous analysis of large numbers of DNA samples using restriction enzymes to decreasegenome complexity and generate thousads of SNP-like markers (one-base polymorphisms) usingsequencing platforms. ( b) Pangenome and super pangenome assembly. Describes the collection of allgenes in a species (pangenome) or genus (super pangenome). These have a nucleus genome that hasall the genes shared by a species and the variable genome that only some individuals have. ( c) Zincfinger and TALEN site direct mutagenesis. Zinc finger nucleases are constituted by the fusion of seriesInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 14 of 50of zinc ﬁnger domains with a non-speciﬁc domain of the FokI nuclease. Each zinc ﬁnger domainrecognizes three nucleotides while the FokI domain cuts DNA strands at different positions, intro-ducing a sticky double strand break (DSB) (5–7 bp). Transcription activator-like effector nucleases(TALENs) are TALE repeats with a non-speciﬁc FokI endonuclease domain. Each TALE repeat recog-nizes a single nucleotide, while the FokI domain introduces sticky DSB within the spacer sequence(12–21 bp). (d) CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tools. The system consists of a single guide RNA andCas9 endonuclease. Guide RNA pairs with 20-nucleotide target sequences in genomic DNA, andthe Cas9 enzyme contains catalytic nuclease domains that allow for site-speciﬁc editing. ( e) Thistechnique uses a speciﬁc oligonucleotide (20–100 bp) to generate a unique DNA base change in theplant genome. The cell repair system recognizes the single base mismatch between its own DNA andthat of the repair template.GBS provides a rapid and low-cost tool to genotype breeding populations, allowingplant breeders to implement GWAS, genomic diversity studies, genetic linkage analysis,molecular marker discovery, genomic selection (GS), and epigenetic variations underlarge-scale plant breeding programs [92,182–202].There are some variants of the original GBS protocol [ 180]. Essentially, to prepare GBSlibraries for NGS, genomic DNA obtained from tissues of parents and lines under studyis digested with the restriction enzyme ApeKI, which is an enzyme with frequent cuttingability (although recent reports use other enzymes and even a combination of differentenzymes) [ 180,183,185,189,203]. The fragmented DNA is ligated with adaptors 1 (barcodeadaptor) and 2 (common adaptor), both containing the corresponding overhang ends for theused restriction enzyme(s). A compatible set of 96 barcode adaptors (from 4 to 8 bp length)were used in the original protocol. Sets of ligation products of digested DNA samples(up to 96), each with a different barcode adapter, are pooled and cleaned up to eliminateunincorporated adapters. To increase the fragment pool, a PCR was performed usingprimers with compatible sites to the ligated adapters. After clean up and evaluation of theresulting fragment sizes, the PCR products are used for single-end or pair-end sequencingusing NGS. Bioinformatic analysis of the resulting sequences allows for mapping and SNPsvalidation. Although the use of the GBS strategy is growing in use, the intrinsic error rate ofthe sequencing process and the low depth of sequencing are associated with the two majordrawbacks of this approach [204].The recent high increase in new plant genomes sequenced allows for the comparativeanalysis of numerous related individuals. There is a high degree of genomic variation,ranging from SNPs to large polymorphisms known as structural variations (SV), which ledto the realization that unique reference genomes do not represent the species diversity, thusleading to the pangenome concept. Pangenomes represent the genomic diversity of a givenspecies and include core genes (common genes within all the individuals of the species), aswell as variable genes (absent in some individuals) [ 205–207] (Figure 3b). Abiotic- and biotic-responsive genes are frequently enriched within variable gene groups [ 208]. Moreover, theuse of accessions of all available species of a given genus for the development of a morecomprehensive and complete pangenome is now known as the super-pangenome [ 209](Figure 3b). Thus, the use of pangenomic and super-pangenome data can be used fordeveloping markers for GWAS and gene discovery to support robust plant breedingprograms to achieve abiotic stress tolerance or another desired trait [208,210–215].On the other hand, a tremendous amount of transcriptomic data also continues toaccumulate, which could be used to identify genes with potential for plant breedingapplications. In pan-transcriptome analyses, a large number of different transcriptomeaccessions made from varieties of a species or members of a genus of interest are compared.A pan-transcriptome assembly strategy identiﬁed genes for the response to abiotic stressand the synthesis of secondary metabolites among varieties of the Camellia sinensis teaplant [ 216]. In rice, heat stress tolerance genes have been identiﬁed by combining data frompan-genomes, pan-transcriptomes, and QTLs [217].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 15 of 50Moreover, mixed strategies of “Omics” and “multi-omics” (including genomics, tran-scriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics, and phenomics, among others) have been appliedto crops to improve abiotic stress tolerance [218–234].However, understanding the ﬂow of biological information underlying complex traitsrequires a systems biology approach involving the integration of multiple Omics data,modeling, and prediction of cellular functions [ 235]. It has been proposed that systemsbiology with multi-omics data integration is important to allow for a holistic understandingof the dynamic system with the different levels of biological organization interacting withthe external environment for a phenotypic expression to occur [235].2.2.2. Zinc Finger Nucleases (ZFNs) and Transcription Activator-Like EffectorNucleases (TALENs)ZFNs are the predecessors of TALENs, and both are considered the ﬁrst technologiesthat started the genome editing revolution era (Figure 3c) [ 236,237]. Zinc ﬁnger nucleasescomprise the ﬁrst generation of tools for genome editing by targeting double-strand breaks(DSBs) using chimerically engineered nucleases. Zinc-ﬁnger technology was also theﬁrst technology offering efﬁcient and precise genome editing in plants [ 238–240]. Thehistoric record of performance, speciﬁcity, and intellectual property rights make ZFNsan interesting genome-editing tool for plant biotechnology [ 241]. The development ofZFNs technology was possible thanks to the discovery of the functional Cys2-His2 zincﬁnger domain [ 242–244]. The ZF-binding domain is derived from a human transcriptionfactor and contains four–six Cys2-His2 arrays. Six ZF arrays identify and attach to threenucleotides in the DNA. The -helices of the ZF DNA-binding domain deﬁne which ofthe three base pairs will be recognized. ZFNs are a combination of a ZF DNA bindingdomain with an endonuclease, most frequently FokI. Typical ZFNs consist of a minimum ofthree zinc ﬁnger domains, each recognizing three bp [ 245]. On average, a single functionalZFN pair can be generated per 100-bp DMA sequence, meaning that ZFNs allow forefﬁcient genome editing [ 246,247]. ZFNs have some advantages when compared to CRISPRtechnology. ZFNs are able to bind and induce DSBs with high ﬁdelity, while CRISPR/Cassystem requires a protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) sequence at the target, which limitsthe number of suitable targets [ 248,249]. However, despite the effectiveness of ZFNs,the designing of ZFNs, which perfectly match a speciﬁc DNA sequence, is still a stronglabor-intensive and costly issue [250].The TALEN strategy was the ﬁrst genome-editing tool that saved a human life [ 251]and also allowed the generation of the ﬁrst genome-edited crop into the market [ 252].TALENs are constituted by a speciﬁc DNA binding domain (which is freely designable)and a nuclease [ 253]. TALENs work as molecular scissors, inducing DSBs to the DNA ata speciﬁc site [ 245]. The binding domain attaches to a speciﬁc DNA sequence, and thenuclease domain creates DSBs. The induced DSBs are further repaired by non-homologousend joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR) [ 150]. When NHEJ participates inthe DSB reparation, this usually disrupts the gene function due to the generation of smallinsertions or deletions at the DNA breakpoint [ 245,254]. In HR, the DNA region ﬂankingthe DSB is replaced with a repair template or similar sequence [253,255].TALEs were ﬁrst identiﬁed in the plant pathogen Xanthomonas, where they aredelivered to host cells to reprogram the plant transcriptome, suppress immunity, supportpathogen growth, and promote the development of disease [ 256,257]. The XanthomonasTAL effectors bind to speciﬁc sites of the plant host DNA and activate the expression ofgenes thought to be beneﬁcial to the pathogen’s growth and dissemination [ 256,258,259]TALEs contain a central DNA-binding repeat domain (CDR) that addresses the DNAbinding speciﬁcity through one repeat to one base pair correspondence [ 260,261]. The CDRcontains tandem repeats of 34 amino acid residues, and each CDR repeat binds to onenucleotide in the target DNA site. The two amino acids that deﬁne the DNA speciﬁcityof a TALE or TALEN are located at positions 12 and 13 of each repeat, named the repeat-variable di-residue (RVD) [ 260,262]. The speciﬁcities of all possible RVD have been decoded,Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 16 of 50revealing very speciﬁc ones recognizing only a single nucleotide as well as more ﬂexibleones tolerating two, three, or all four nucleotides [ 256]. DNA binding speciﬁcities of TALEsand TALEN can be changed at will, through a repeat re-arrangement. Using this feature,TALEs can be engineered to bind any desired DNA sequence [ 263]. The TALE domain wasﬁrst used as a fusion protein to address the nuclease activity of the enzyme FokI [ 264–267].The nuclease FokI works as a dimer, so TALENs are designed in pairs that bind opposingDNA target sites separated by a 12–21 bp spacer [ 268]. This conﬁguration allows theFokI monomers to come together to generate a DSB. In addition to nucleases, TALEs havebeen used to fuse repressors or activator domains in order to address, respectively, geneknockdown or gene activation; to fuse transposases, recombinases, reporter proteins, orhistone modiﬁers such as methytransferases and DNA-cytosine demethylases to conductepigenetics research [ 255,268,269]. Moreover, TALENs have been used to achieve multiplexgenome-editing (MGE), for example, using a single TALEN pair to edit three homoeoallelesencoding mildew resistance locus proteins in hexaploid bread wheat [ 270,271]. In additionto nuclear genome editing mediated by TALENs, this technology has been successfully usedto target and edit mitochondrial and chloroplast sequences (mitoTALENs and cpTALEN,respectively) [272–276] (Figure 2f,g).The generation of plasmids for TALE expression can be a slightly complex issue dueto their repetitive nature, although the design is easier than for ZFNs [ 277] However, thedevelopment of high-throughput cloning methods such as the Golden Gate, GoldenBraid,Gibson assembly, Gateway assembly, or chaining cloning, has accelerated the way in whichthe mass editing of genomes is carried out [ 278]. Several toolkits for the construction oftailor-made TALEs with custom DNA speciﬁcity are available [279–284].2.2.3. Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)The discovery that prokaryotes also possess mechanisms that confer adaptive and her-itable immunity constitutes one of the greatest advances in biology in the last two decades.The history of CRISPR began with the description of a series of short direct repeats inter-spaced with short sequences in the genome of Escherichia coli [285]. The prokaryotic CRISPRadaptive immune system (existing in 50% of bacterial genomes and 90% of archaeal) isable to store memories of past phage infections and, when suffering a new infection, utilizeRNA-guided nucleases, CRISPR-associated (Cas enzyme). This mechanism induces thesilencing of phages and other mobile genetic elements, such as plasmids and transposons,in a sequence-speciﬁc manner. Twenty-ﬁve years later, the tool for genome editing wasdeveloped using the Cas9 endonuclease [ 248]. Almost simultaneously, the ﬁrst examples ofthe CRISPR-Cas 9 system were reported in humans and other eukaryotes [ 286–289]. Theﬁrst successful applications of CRISPR/Cas technology in plants were reported in tobacco,wheat, rice, sorghum, and Arabidopsis, as well as the ﬁrst discussions about its applicationin crops [ 290–297]. The importance of CRISPR-Cas technology was recently recognizedwith the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2020 to Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer Doudnafor their groundbreaking work on the CRISPR system [248].To understand the applications and limits of the CRISPR-Cas technology, it is im-portant to know the composition and role of prokaryotes. The CRISPR/Cas immunityprocess can be divided into the following three stages: adaptation, crRNA maturation,and interference [ 298–300]. During adaptation, a complex formed by the nucleases Cas1and Cas2 recognizes and selects a fragment of the foreign DNA and integrates it into thehost’s CRISPR array. The crRNA maturation involves the generation of a long pre-crRNAas a result of the transcription of the CRISPR array, which is further fragmented by Casproteins (or cellular endogenous RNases) releasing several individual mature crRNAs.Then, the mature crRNAs guide Cas nucleases to their target foreign DNA (the interferencestage). The Cas proteins cleave the foreign nucleic acid after crRNA recognizes the targetsequence by sequence complementation and binding (Figure 3d). Regarding the structuralgenomic composition of the CRISPR-Cas locus, this is constituted by the casoperon (ex-pressing several Cas nucleases) and the CRISPR repeat-spacer-array (which contains all theInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 17 of 50spacers that store the memory of previous phage-mediated infections); in the interferencemediated by the nuclease Cas9, the transcription of the tracrRNA (trans-acting CRISPRRNA) from a neighbor locus is also required [ 301]. Taking into account the variety ofcasgenes and the biology of the interference complex, CRISPR-Cas systems have beenassigned to two classes, which are subdivided into six types and various subtypes thateach possess signature casgenes. Class 1 CRISPR-Cas systems (types I, III, and IV) employmulti-Cas protein complexes for interference (Cas5, Cas7, Cas8, Cas11, among others). Incontrast, in class 2 systems (types II, V , and VI), interference is achieved by a single effectorprotein, such as Cas9, Cas12a, or Cas13 (Rnase) [ 300,302–308]. However, more weaponshave evolved in this molecular war. Bacteriophages also harbor a battery of anti-CRISPR(Acr) proteins that tend to suppress the CRISPR-Cas immunity of the infected bacteria. TheAcr proteins act at different levels, inhibiting the crRNA-guided DNA binding and primingadaptation or blocking the cleavage of phage DNA [309,310].The CRISPR-Cas9 system is the most widely adopted tool by the scientiﬁc communityfor genetic engineering. It is constituted by Cas9 nuclease, tracrRNA, and crRNA. The Cas9protein is a crRNA-dependent endonuclease, which is analogous in shape to a bilobed jawand contains one nuclease (NUC) lobe, and one recognition (REC) lobe. The Cas9 NUClobe contains two unrelated nuclease domains (RuvC and HNH), which are responsible forthe cleavage of the displaced (non-target) and the target DNA strands, respectively, in thecrRNA-target DNA complex [ 248,304,311]. The NUC lobe of Cas9 also contains a PI domain,which can recognize the PAM sequence on the non-complementary strand. The PAM isa short sequence motif (usually 2–6 base pairs in length) adjacent to the crRNA-targetedsequence on the invading DNA and plays an essential role in the stages of interference andadaptation [ 312]. To be able to cut, Cas nuclease requires a PAM, which is usually located3–4 nucleotides downstream from the cut site. For sequence-speciﬁc silencing, crRNAand tracrRNA participate in target recognition [ 298,299]. The 5’-terminal sequence of eachcrRNA is complementary to the sequence of the target site, while the crRNA 3 /acute.ts1-terminalsequence can create complexes with tracrRNA and Cas9. The Cas9-tracrRNA-crRNAcomplex is essential for the identiﬁcation and binding of Cas9 on the proper target sites andspeciﬁc cleavage, resulting in a DSB on the processed DNA. Repair of these DSBs can leadto gene disruption if the break is repaired by a deleterious event resulting from a classicalnonhomologous end-joining reaction (C-NHEJ), an alternative end-joining reaction (alt-EJ,also called microhomology-mediated end-joining, MMEJ), or a single-strand annealingreaction (SSA) [ 313]. Alternatively, in the presence of a homologous donor DNA template,these DSBs can be repaired via a homology-directed repair (HDR) pathway, leading toaccurate gene replacement [313,314].For its practical use in different organisms, the CRISPR-Cas9 systems have beenadjusted. The artiﬁcial CRISPR-Cas9 system includes a synthetic RNA chimera createdby fusing crRNA with tracrRNA (single guide RNA, or sgRNA), which is functional andcomparable in efﬁciency to the crRNA and tracrRNA complex (Figure 3). Consequently, thenumber of components was brought down to only two, Cas9 and sgRNA [ 248]. The 5’endsequence of the sgRNA guide provides DNA target speciﬁcity. Consequently, it is possibleto design sgRNAs with different target selectivity by changing the 5’end sequence of thesgRNA guide. The length of a canonical guide sequence is 20 bp. Accordingly, the lengthof a DNA target is also 20 bp, followed by a PAM sequence that contains the consensusNGG sequence. Another innovation to implement the CRISPR-Cas9 systems in plantswas the use of a plant codon-optimized version of Cas9 from Streptococcus pyogenes,although a previously reported human codon-optimized version of Cas9 has also beenused successfully [290,315–317].In summary, the use of CRISPR-Cas9 in plants involves a four-step process. First,design the gRNA sequence for the selected target genome region, including a sequenceof20 bp followed by PAM (NGG). Next, assemble a codon-optimized Cas9/sgRNA con-struct (s) with a plant RNA polymerase III promoter (AtU6 or TaU6 or OsU6 or OsU3,or a species-speciﬁc RNA polymerase III promoter). Third, the stable or transient trans-Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 18 of 50formation of sgRNA and Cas9 into plant tissues (via Agrobacterium, biolistic, or proto-plast) [ 140,318,319]. Recently, virus-based vectors were also proposed for plant deliveryof CRISPR-Cas9 [ 320]. The last step, screening for mutant or transformed plants by PCRgenotyping and conﬁrmation by sequencing. Several tools for the design of CRISPR-Cas9components are available online [321,322].Remarkably, close to twenty CRISPR-Cas system variants have been developed to editthe genomes at different levels, which represents a promising battery of CRISPR tools forplant genome editing, allowing not only for DSBs but also for base editing, gene repressionor activation, chromatin topology or imaging, and epigenome editing, among other appli-cations (Table 1 and Figure 3d) [ 300,323]. First, CRISPR-Cas12a; the system CRISPR-Cas12aproduces DBSs with sticky ends (4–5 nucleotide overhangs), which can be used for DNAprecise repair with the use of a donor repair template (DRT), which is inserted by the actionof the HDR pathway [ 324,325]. Second, DNA and RNA base editing; base editing usesCRISPR-Cas machinery to convert one single base to another in a programmable manner,without the generation of DSBs or DRT participation [ 326,327]. At least the followingthree classes of base editor systems are known: adenine base editors (ABEs), cytidine baseeditors (CBEs), and RNA editing (REPAIR) systems. CBEs contain the mutant variant nCas9(D10A mutation) or SpCAs9-NG variant fused with cytidine deaminase (which mediatesG-C to A-T conversion in the targeted DNA strand) [326,328,329]. The nCas9 mutant hasnickase activity while still being capable of binding sgRNA [ 330,331]. ABEs are composedof an adenine deaminase fused to nCas9 for A-T to G-C base conversion [ 327,332,333].In both cases, CBE and ABE, the further DNA mismatch repair mechanism and DNAreplication allow for the base change ﬁxation. In addition to DNA editors, RNA baseeditors enable single base substitutions at the RNA level. As an example, the REPAIRsystem uses a deaminase or an adenosine deaminase (acting on RNA) fused to catalyt-ically dead dCas13b [ 334–337]. This allows for programmable RNA editing, changingA to I, which is treated as guanine during translation. Moreover, the RESCUE systemsuse a dCas13b catalytically dead endonuclease domain fused to engineered ADR2DD forC to U base replacement on RNA [ 337,338]. Third, Prime editing; the prime editors arebipartite systems, containing a prime editing guide (pegRNA) and a fusion protein (M-MLVreverse transcriptase fused to nickase nCas9 (H840A) [ 339,340]. The pegRNA is a modiﬁedversion of a sgRNA, additionally containing a primer binding site (PBS) sequence harboringa template sequence for reverse transcriptase (RT); this PBS contains new or edited geneticinformation. The pegRNA guides the protein fusion to the target, and the PBS region bindsto the induced nicked DNA strand and initiates the reverse transcription of the templatesequence that contains the desired edit or new genetic information [ 330]. The DNA repairmechanisms allow for the ﬁxation of the edition. Fourth, Epigenome editing; there havebeen developed epigenome editing systems, which alter the methylation proﬁle of DNA(CRISPR-SunTag system) or RNA (m6A editing system), as desired. The CRISPR-SunTagsystem (dCAs9-SunTag-TETcd demethylase or dCas9-SunTag-DRM methyltransferase)enables target DNA demethylation and methylation, respectively, to repress or activategene expression [ 341–343]. Fifth, tissue culture-free genome editing; this method generatesgenome-edited plants by removing the meristems and inoculating the injured cut portion ofthe plant with Agrobacterium harboring developmental regulators (DRs) and CRISPR con-structs, inducing the production of new meristems. Eventually, new genome-edited shootsform and the changes are transmitted to the next generation [ 344]. Among the DRs usedare WUSCHEL (WUS), SHOOT MERISTEMLESS (STM), and MONOPTEROS (MP), whoseaction dictates, in part, the meristems’ identity. Sixth, CRISPR-IGE (inducible genome edit-ing); at least the following two inducible systems have been used to manage the expressionof Cas9: the XVE-inducible for 17- b-estradiol [ 345] and the HS-CRISPR inducible by heatshock [ 346]. In addition, a successful combination of CRISPR-TSKO with CRISPR-IGE hasbeen reported [ 345]. Seventh, CRISPR-TSKO (CRISPR-based tissue-speciﬁc knockout); thissystem allows for efﬁcient mutagenesis in a cell-, tissue-, or organ-speciﬁc manner by ad-dressing Cas9 expression under the control of a speciﬁed cell or tissue type promoter [ 347].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 19 of 50This allows for temporal and spatial regulation of edited genes in plants. Eighth, CRISPR-SKIP; this strategy of base editing uses CBEs to mutate G at the end of introns, just in theboundaries of exon-intron, altering the resulting RNA splicing. Thus, altering a singlebase can lead to exon skipping into mature transcripts, removing exons permanently [ 348].Ninth, CRISPR Start-Loss (CRISPR-SL); this method can abolish targeted gene expressionby disturbing the start codon (ATG), using both CBEs and ABEs to convert ATG into ATA,ACG, or GTG [ 332,333,349]. Tenth, DNA-free genome editing; this innovation uses thedelivery of pre-assembled gRNA/Cas9 ribonucleoproteins (RNPs), which facilitates geneediting without the use of transgenes, avoiding their integration in the genome [350–355].Table 1. Cas enzymes and CRISPR-Cas tools for plant genome editing.Cas Enzyme Tools Uses ReferencesCas9and Cas9engineeredversionsCRISPR-Cas9Generates DBS on DNA (blunt end). DNA repair mechanismsprovoke frameshift mutations resulting in gene knock-out. Useof more than one sgRNA can induce longer deletions ormultiplex gene targeting[290,314,315]DNA-freeRequires delivery of gRNA/Cas9 ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) toediting without transgene integration to the genome[320,350]IGE-XVE Cas9 expression system inducible by estrogens (17- -estradiol). [345]IGE-HS Cas9 expression system inducible by heat shock [346]TSKOTissue-speciﬁc knockout system. A cell or tissue speciﬁcpromoter controls the expression of Cas9, provoking spatialregulation of gene editing[347]TSKO + IGEThis combination provides spatial- and temporal-regulatedgenome editing[345]CBE Mediates G-C to A-T base conversion in target DNA strand [328]ABE Induce A-T to G-C base changeover in target DNA strand [332]STEMEUsed in a high-throughput manner to modify cisregulatoryelements and genome wide screening[333]STOPFacilitates gene silencing by creating stop codon without theneed of DBS[356]SMARTBased in the rescue of lethal mutations to quickly assess theefﬁciency of base editing.[331]SL Provokes alterations in start codon (ATG to ATA, ACG, or GTG) [349]SKIPMutates G at the end of an intron, which can lead to exonskipping into mature transcripts[348]PASSConvert the three possible PTCs (TAA, TAG, and TGA) intoTGG (tryptophan)[357]dCas9-SunTag-TET1cdEpigenome editing through TET1-cd demethylase, allowing forspeciﬁc gene up-regulation[341]dCas9-SunTag-DRMcdEpigenome editing through DRM methyltransferase, enablingspeciﬁc gene down-regulation[342]Prime editingCreates new genetic changes (or repairing) at the target DNAwithout DSB or DRT[339,340]Cas12a(former Cpf1)CRISPR-Cas12aCas12a targets T-rich regions of the genome where Cas9 is notsuitable to use, facilitates multiplexing, assists for precise DNArepair by exogenous DRT. Cas12a generates staggered endswith 4–5 nucleotide overhangs, which is advantageous forgenetic insertions or speciﬁcity during NHEJ or HDR.Moreover, Cas12a offers future modiﬁcations at the same targetsite, because it cuts DNA strands distal to the PAM sequence[324,325]Cas13and Cas13engineeredversionsCRISPR-Cas13Cas13 has ribonuclease activity capable of targeting andcleaving ssRNA. Potential applications in plant virusinterference or repression of eukaryotic gene expression[306,308]m6ARNA epigenome editing. Edits the methylation stage oftarget transcripts[343]REPAIR RNA editing. For A to I (G) base substitution at RNA level [334,337]RESCUE RNA editing. For C to U base replacement at RNA level [337,338]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 20 of 50Recently, also a plant negative-strand RNA virus-based vector was designed for inplanta delivery of the entire CRISPR-Cas9 cassette to achieve single, multiplex mutagenesisand chromosomal deletions in tobacco; the vector can be readily eliminated from mu-tated plants during regeneration, allowing for DNA-free genome editing [ 319]. Eleventh,CRISPR-STOP is a method that creates stop codons using base editors (without DSB events),consequently provoking gene silencing. The CBEs utilized generate UAA (ochre), UAG(amber), and UGA (opal) stop codons by targeting the cytosine in the coding strand of thetarget harboring CAA (glutamine), CAG (glutamine), and CGA (arginine) [ 356]. Twelfth,CRISPR-PASS; this method eliminates premature stop codons (PTCs) by disrupting stopcodons such as TAA, TAG, or TGA. For this, CRISPR-PASS uses ABEs to convert suchcodons into TGG (tryptophan) [ 357]. Interestingly, the strategy of inactivating PTCs in keygene transcripts is a promising way to improve desired characteristics for plant crops.MGE supported by CRISPR-Cas confers to scientists the capacity to decode complexbiological problems by editing several genes simultaneously. This allows the knockoutof multiple genes at once to engineering-efﬁcient plant metabolic pathways, to manipu-late the transcriptional regulation of a group of genes, to achieve chromosomal segmentrestructuring, or multiplex base alterations, among other applications [271].As mentioned, the engineering of Cas proteins provides new variants with the poten-tial to generate novel applications for genome editing. Nature is also an excellent sourceof new forms of Cas proteins. A recent report showed the isolation of a large number ofnew phages from a wide range of ecosystems’ sampling collections [ 358], achieving theidentiﬁcation of ubiquitous huge bacteriophages with a surprising prevalence of CRISPR-Cas systems encoded in their genomes. The clade Biggiephage harbors a member of theCas family with about half the size of Cas9 or Cas12 (140 kD), which is known as Cas F(Cas12j). The 70 kD Cas Fharbors an individual active site for the following steps: crRNAprocessing and the cutting of target nucleic acids guided by a crRNA. This hypercompactsystem contains expanded target recognition capabilities in comparison with other Casproteins and is active in vitro and in human and plant cells [ 359]. Such compact Cas pro-teins could be engineered to search for new functionalities, thus expanding the toolbox forgenome editing. The small size of Cas F, coupled with their minimal PAM requirementwill be particularly advantageous for both vector-based delivery into cells and a widerrange of targetable genomic sequences, providing a new component to the CRISPR-Castoolbox [359].Finally, the use of the CRISPR-Cas system for gene editing in chloroplasts expands thealternatives for genetic improvement (Figure 2g). Delivery of the plasmids in a targeted man-ner to the chloroplast can be accomplished using biolistics and carbon nanotubes [360,361].2.2.4. Oligonucleotide-Directed Mutagenesis (ODM)The ODM is now being revisited as a suitable technique to make directed genomeediting in plants. ODM allows the generation of custom-made SNPs in the target genome,which represents a “game-changing” in the plant breeding area. One interesting advantageof ODM is that the resulting genome-edited plants are considered non-transgenic [ 362,363],opening the possibility to apply this technique in plant crops without costly and longGMO regulatory procedures. Initially, ODM was successfully used for genome editing inbacterial, yeast, and mammalian systems [ 364–366]. In plants, ODM started to be used atthe end of the nineties [367–371].The mode of action for ODM in eukaryotic systems has been determined in mam-malian and plant models. An oligonucleotide with homology to the target sequence butcontaining a mismatch is delivered across the cell membrane, travels through the cyto-plasm, and ﬁnally passes the nuclear membrane where it anneals to the nuclear DNAtarget sequence [ 372]. In addition, chimeric RNA/DNA can also be used in plants forODM [ 369]. ODM requires the use of oligonucleotides (between 20 and 100 nucleotides inlength) designed to be identical to the target except for one or a few altered nucleotides cor-responding to the intended mutations [ 371,373]. The endogenous mismatch repair systemInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 21 of 50is involved in the incorporation of the (oligo-directed) nucleotide mismatch [ 365,367,374](Figure 3e). Importantly, it is critical to have high transfection efﬁciencies to ensure theoligonucleotide is delivered into as many cells as possible to maximize DNA conversionefﬁciencies; otherwise, the oligonucleotide-mediated conversion rate could be as low asthat reached by the spontaneous mutation rate [ 375]. ODM involves the following two-stepprocess to insert the mutation: ﬁrst the oligonucleotide annealing to the sequence target,and second, the reparation of the mismatch by the cell /acute.ts1s repair machinery. Although inplants, the oligonucleotide does not integrate into their genome, it serves to guide thecellular repair system to the target site. Its inability to integrate is due to the followingtwo reasons: the activity of endogenous nucleases and other oligonucleotide degradingenzymes, and the 5’ and 3’end modiﬁcations in oligos, which prevent DNA ligation [ 362].On the other hand, in prokaryotes, the ODM system requires the action of mustS and recAto incorporate the ODM-induced mismatch into the genome [362].The molecular basis of many important agronomical traits relies on small geneticdifferences, or SNPs, present in critical genes. A classic example of the ability of ODMto incorporate SNPs into the plant genome is the manipulation of the acetohydroxyacidsynthase (AHAS) genes of tobacco and maize [ 367,369,376]. ODM-induced editing onAHAS confers resistance to the herbicide chlorsulfuron, which is a speciﬁc AHAS-inhibitorherbicide by blocking the synthesis of the branching amino acids valine, leucine, andisoleucine [ 377]. A sulfonylurea herbicide-tolerant canola variety (SU CanolaTM) was theﬁrst commercialized ODM genome-edited (Ged) crop, which was obtained by pit mutationin AHAS (also known as ALS, acetolactate synthase gene) [ 362,378,379]. The SU CanolaTMwas considered non-genetically modiﬁed (non-GM), classiﬁed as “non-regulated”, andlaunched in the USA in 2015 [380] and in Canada in 2017 [135,372,381].Finally, oligos have also been used to generate mutagenesis in Arabidopsis chloroplastlysates [ 382]. It would be interesting to explore the possibility of using ODM for themodiﬁcation of chloroplast genes (Figure 2g) using carbon nanotubes [360] or other typesof nanoparticles for the delivery of oligos in this organelle.3. Crops3.1. Model and Non-Model PlantsThe use of model plants such as Arabidopsis, maize [ 383], bryophytes such as Physcomitriumpatens (formerly Physcomitrella patens ) [384], halophytes such as Mesembryanthemumcristallinum [385],Thellungiella halophila ,Aeluropus littoralis [386], resurrection plants such asCraterostigma plantagineum [387],Selaginella lepidophylla [388], and Pseudocrossidium replica-tum [389], as well as important crops including barley, potato, soybean, common bean [ 390],tomato [ 391], among others, have established the bases of plant abiotic stress biochemical,genetic, molecular, and physiological responses. Genome sequencing, gene annotation,functional Omics, and validation of stress tolerance identiﬁed genes from model plantsas well as from major crops have been vital. Although multiple important successfulefforts to improve abiotic stress tolerance through conventional breeding (induced muta-tion, inter-generic and inter-speciﬁc crosses), molecular and biotechnological approaches(QTL, marker-assisted selection, haplotype analysis, genome-wide association studies–GWAS, genetic engineering, and genome and epigenome editing technology), as well asthe use of effective microbes, have been reported, the search for stress tolerance can onlybe reached considering the physiology, ecology, and breeding of individual plant speciesunder realistic ﬁeld conditions. Although not described in this review, improvement ofabiotic stress tolerance in several important crops such as barley [ 392–395], sorghum [ 396],potato [ 397–401], leguminous [ 400,402–407], and horticultural [ 400,408–410] plant specieshas been described.In the following sections, selected recent reports that describe efforts to obtain abi-otic stress-tolerant plants, though mentioned techniques are brieﬂy described, focusingon the three main cereal crops, rice, wheat, and corn, comprising around 75% of grainproduction worldwide.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 22 of 503.2. Rice (Oryza sativa L.)Rice is one of the major abiotic stress-sensitive sources of food. Backcrossing andinduced mutation methods have led to the development of rice drought-tolerant varietiesthat include important traits such as root architectural plasticity [ 411–416]. Gamma raysirradiated rice varieties or landraces have rendered at least 16 drought-tolerant lines, forexample, MK-D-2, MK-D-3, MR219-9, and MR219-4 [ 411–414]. Moreover, QTLs and marker-assisted selection (MAS) strategy have been conducted to the identiﬁcation of hundredsof abiotic stress tolerance QTLs (extensively reviewed by Choudhary, et al., 2019 [ 417]),including drought tolerance (i.e., deep rooting DRO1 QTL) [ 94,418–422], tolerance tosalinity (i.e., Saltol QTL) [ 423–428], heat (i.e., QTLs thermotolerance TT1, spikelet fertilityand pollen shedding qPSLht4.1, spikelet sterility qSTIPSS9.1 ) [428–432], cold [ 433] (Table 2),and ﬂooding or submergence tolerance (such as SUB1 ,qTIL1 ,qTIL12 ,qNEI12 ,qLEI12QTLs) [ 425,428,434–439]. Moreover, the combination of multiple stress tolerance (IR64-Sub1 with drought-tolerant lines, UKM5 and UKM91 that contain the qDTYs, viz. qDTY12.1and qDTY3.1 drought yield QTL loci) [ 440] and resistance to biotic and abiotic stress [ 441]has been identiﬁed in this crop. It is worth noting that root architectural plasticity QTLs areclosely linked to drought and submergence adaptation in rice [ 416]. Haplotype analysiscombined with GWAS led to the identiﬁcation of the SEMIDWARF1 gene involved in riceadaptation to ﬂooding [ 442] (Table 2). Recently, GWAS identiﬁed eight cold-tolerance-related genetic loci in this crop, including one locus ( LOC_Os10g34840 ) whose cold-tolerantallele is present in most temperate japonica accessions (80%) [ 443] (Table 2). GWAS in ricehas also found numerous markers for tolerance to salinity ( OSMADS31 ,OSHAK11 ,AGO ,OsPINis ,Germin family proteins SAP ,ZIFL ), and ﬂooding, among other traits [444,445].Table 2. Recent examples of genes used to improve abiotic stress tolerance in the three main cerealcrops, rice, wheat, and maize.Crop Molecular Strategy Gene Improved Stress Tolerance ReferencesRiceHaplotype analysis with GWAS SEMIDWARF1 ﬂooding [442]GWAS LOC_Os10g34840 cold [443]QTLs and MAS TT1 heat [430]Overexpression PcCFR salinity, drought, and cold stress [446]CRISPR OsMYB30 cold [447]CRISPR OsPYL9 drought [448]CRISPR OsERA1 drought [449]CRISPR OsRR22 salinity and osmotic stress [450]CRISPR OsDSTdrought, salinity, and osmoticstress[451]CRISPR OsMPK5 various abiotic (and biotic) stresses [297]WheatOverexpression TaFER-5B heat, cold, and drought [452]Overexpression TaPYL4 drought [453]Overexpression TdPIP2 salinity and drought [454]Overexpression ZmPEPC drought and high temperature [455,456]Overexpression TaWRKY2 drought [457]Overexpression TaBZR2 drought [458]Overexpression TaPEPKR2 drought, osmotic, and heat stress [459]Overexpression AtOTS1 drought [460]CRISPR TaERF3 drought [461]CRISPR TaDREB2 drought [461]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 23 of 50Table 2. Cont.Crop Molecular Strategy Gene Improved Stress Tolerance ReferencesMaizeOverexpression betA drought [462]Overexpression TsVP drought [462]Overexpression CSP S drought [463]Overexpression TPP drought [33]Overexpression VHb waterlogging [464]Overexpression SDD1 drought [465]Overexpression OsMYB55 drought and high temperature [466]Overexpression ZmERB180 waterlogging [467]CRISPR ARGOS8 drought [468]CRISPR ZmHKT1 salinity [469]Omics approaches have led to the identiﬁcation of hundreds of abiotic stress-responsivegenes, and many of them have led to improved stress-tolerant phenotypes when over-expressed (or suppressed). Molecular approaches to improve rice tolerance to severalabiotic stresses have been comprehensively reviewed [ 94,422,470–476]. Genes encodingenzymes involved in the synthesis of osmolytes and other protectants that improve tol-erance to one or several abiotic stresses (drought, oxidative, cold, salinity) in rice plantsinclude functions for arginine decarboxylase (ADC), polyamine synthesis (ADC), abscisicacid metabolism (DSM2), amino acid metabolism ( OsOAT ), reactive oxygen species (ROS)scavenging ( OsSRO1c ), protoporphyrinogen oxidase ( PPO ), trehalose synthesis ( OsTPS1 ,TPSP), and proline synthesis ( P5CS ). Moreover, proteins encoding for late embryogene-sis abundant (LEA) proteins ( HV A1 ,OsLEA3-1 ,OsLEA3-2 ), regulatory genes coding fortranscription factors ( ABF3 ,AP37 ,OsbZIP23 ,OsbZIP72 ,OsbZIP73 ,OsbZIP42 ,OsbZIP46 ,OsbZIP66 ,SAPK6 ,OsFTL10 ,OsMYB6 ,OsMYB48-1 ,ZAT6 ,SNAC1 ,ONAC045 ,ONAC5/6/9,ONAC10 ,ONAC14 ,EcNAC67 ,IDS1 ,OsPIL1 ,OsERF115/AP2EREB110 ,DREB1A ,OsDREB1 ,DREB2 ,HvCBF4 ,EDT1 ,OsWRKY11 ,TaWRKY32 ,OsTZF5 ), harpin protein ( Hrf1 ), jasmonateand ethylene-responsive factor 1 ( JERF1 ), ethylene-responsive factor 1 ( TSRF1 ), RING ﬁngerprotein ( OsCOIN ), stress/zinc ﬁnger protein ( OsiSAP8 ), protein degradation (E3 ubiquitinligase OsSDIR1 ,OsPUB67 ), nucleolin ( OsNUC1-S ), among others, have lead to increasedstress tolerance [ 94,473,475,477–482]. In addition, photosynthetic-related genes, such asthe PcCFR gene, coding for a salt-tolerant chloroplastic fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase, trans-genic overexpressing rice performed better under salinity, drought, and cold stress [ 446](Table 2), as well as over-expression of C4 photosynthetic genes (phosphoenolpyruvatecarboxylase enzyme encoding PEPC gene, pyruvate phosphate dikinase enzyme encodingPPDK gene, NADP-dependent malic enzyme encoding NADP-ME gene [ 401]. Moreover,overexpression of glycine max !-3 fatty acid desaturase (GmFAD3A) enhances rice cold tol-erance [ 483]. Regarding rice heat-tolerant lines, overexpression and knockout approacheshave been used with promising results using genes encoding for heat shock proteins(hsp101 ,mtHsp70 ,sHSP17.7 ), regulatory proteins or transcription factors (ZFP , OsWRKY11,OsGSK1, OsHsfA2e, Sp17), and other proteins (FAD7, SBPase) [ 428]). Wild and cultivatedrice pan-genome analysis [ 484], enhances the identiﬁcation of beneﬁc alleles as targets forabiotic stress tolerance for rice improvement.GWAS has also identiﬁed rice genotype-dependent differential methylation, indicatinga role of epigenetic DNA methylation modiﬁcations involved in drought stress [ 485,486].The exploitation of RNAi technology has been used in rice to increase drought toleranceby silencing C-kinase1 receptor, RING ﬁnger E3 ligase OsDSG1, miR170, miR171, miR172;PCF5/PCF8 for cold tolerance [ 486]. Heterologous expression of salt-tolerance genes fromhalophytes such as Suaeda salsa (SsNHX1 ),Spartina anglica (SaNHX1 ),Puccinellia tenuiﬂora(PtNHA1 and PutNHX ),Spartina alterniﬂora (SaVHAc1 ,SaSRP3-1 ),Atriplex hortensis ,SuaedaInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 24 of 50maritime and Suaeda liaotungensis (Badh ),Porteresia coarctata (PcINO1 ), and Avicennia marina(Sod1 ) improved salt tolerance in transgenic rice [386].Genome editing tools such as CRISPR systems have revolutionized rice breeding.CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing has been shown to improve rice tolerance to cold ( OsPIN5b ,GS3,OsAnn3 , and OsMYB30 ) [447], drought ( OsPYL9 ,OsERA1 ,OsSRL1 ,OsSRL2 ,DST ,OsmiR535 ),salinity and osmotic stress ( OsSAPK2 ,OsRR22 ,OsDST ,OsmiR535 )[448–451,476,487], or var-ious abiotic and biotic stresses ( OsMPK5 ) [297], among other multi-targeted rice genes [ 488](Table 2).Finally, an effective and promising strategy to increase tolerance to several abioticstresses is the use of effective microbes applied as inoculants individually or in consortia,which have been shown to improve rice growth and development under drought, salinity,or ﬂooding conditions (reviewed in [77,79,85,489–495]) (Table 3).Table 3. Examples of effective microbes used to combat abiotic stress in the three main cereal crops,rice, wheat, and maize.Crop Rice Wheat MaizeGrowthpromotingrhizobacteria orfungispecies/strainAcinetobacter lwofﬁi Acinetobacter sp. Alcaligenes faecalis (AF3)Arthrobacter deﬂuvii Arthrobacter protophormiae (SA3) Arthrobacter pascensAzospirillum brasilense AZ39 Azospirillum brasilense Sp245 A. brasilenseAzotobacter vinellandii (SRI Az 3) A. brasilense NO40 Azospirillum lipoferumArthrobacter nitroguajacolicus (YB3 and YB5) Azotobacter chrocoocum (E1) Azotobacter sp.Bacillus haynesii Bacillus amyloliquefaciens 5113 Bacillus amyloliquefaciensBacillus megaterium (NBRI 20M) Bacillus aquimaris B. licheniformisBacillus paralicheniformis B. insolitus Bacillus megateriumGlutamicibacter sp. YD01 Bacillus licheniformis B. subtilisJeotgalicoccus huakuii Bacillus pumilus B. thuringiensisLysinibacillus fusiformis Bacillus subtilis (LDR2) Bukholderia phytoﬁrmans (psJN)Oceanobacillus picturae Bacillus thuringiensis AZP2 Enterobacter sp.(FD17)Pantoea sp. Dietzia natronolimnaea (STR1) Herbaspirillum sp.Phyllobacterium brassicacearum Enterobacter ludwigii Klebsiella variicola F2Pseudomonas jessenii R62 Enterobacter sp. Massilia sp. RK4Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes Exiguobacterium aurantiacum Paenibacillus favisporusPseudomonas putida Flavobacterium sp. Pantoea sp.Pseudomonas synxantha R81 Klebsiella sp. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Pa2)Staphylococcus cohnii Marinobacterium sp. Pseudomonas entomophilaGlomus intraradicesMesorhizobium ciceri (CR-30 andCR-39)P . ﬂuorescens N3Glomus coronatum Microbacterium spp. P . ﬂuorescens YX2Glomus constrictum Paenibacillus polymyxa Pseudomonas monteiliiGlomus claroideum Pantoea sp. P . putida (Q7, GAP-P45, UW4)Streptomyces sp. strains Pseudomonas aeruginosa Pseudomonas stutzeriTrichoderma harzianum Pseudomonas ﬂuorescence P . syringaeP . syringae Proteus penneri (Pp1)Pseudomonas sp.(E2) Raoultella planticola YL2Rhizobium leguminosarum (LR-30) Rhizobium sp.Rhizobium phaseoli (MR-2) Rhizoglomus intraradicesSerratia sp. Streptomyces sp.Sinorhizobium sp. Trichoderma atrovirideStenotrophomonas sp. strainsReferences [77,79,85,489–495] [77,79,489,490,494–499] [77,79,84,489,490,494,495,500–503]3.3. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.)Several abiotic stresses severely affect wheat growth and yield, especially consideringthat this crop is mainly cultivated in semiarid and arid regions worldwide where landdegradation, water scarcity, and soil salinity cause serious yield losses. Challenging partic-ular complexity is presented by the hexaploid large genome (17 Gb and 80% of repetitivesequences) in this crop [504].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 25 of 50Wheat has a history of systematic breeding over 100 years; accordingly, huge wheatgermplasm has been developed that includes more than 800,000 local landraces, domesti-cated wheat species, breeding derived, and synthetic accessions (obtained by interspeciﬁchybridization techniques) that contain drought-, heat-, cold-, salinity-, and waterlogging-tolerant genetic resources [ 505]. Among the landraces, varieties, and breeding-derivedlines that exhibit drought tolerance are Aka Komugi (source of the dwarﬁng Rht8c allele),Creole, Triticum boeoticum , Kauz, Ningchun 47, Nesser, NI-5439, WH-1021 and HD-2733,Alvd//Aldan/Ias58*2/3/Gaspard, Pavon 76, Chakwal-86, drought-tolerant 1B/1R chro-mosome translocation wheat genotypes, among others [ 505–508]. Wheat drought andsalt stress tolerance improvements have been obtained by the introgression of traitsfrom the wild relatives Agropyron elongatum and Aegilops umbellulata [509,510]. Muta-tion breeding (gamma radiation) has led to the obtaining of multiple drought-tolerantwheat lines [ 511,512]. Induced mutation has also been used to improve wheat salinitytolerance (Binagom-1 mutant from L-880 parent cultivar) [513].Although abiotic stress tolerance is complex and governed by multiple QTLs, im-proved lines were developed for drought, heat, and salinity tolerance in wheat throughmolecular breeding [ 417,514]. Synthetic hexaploid, as well as double haploid (DH) de-rived wheat lines, have demonstrated improved drought tolerance. Linkage mapping,GWAS, GBS, and QTL meta-analysis have potentiated the identiﬁcation of wheat QTLsand markers associated with drought tolerance in DH and synthetic hexaploid lines [505].Traits related to abiotic stress tolerance QTLs include coleoptile length, stomatal movementand density, yield, quality, cell and thylakoid membrane stability, relative water content,ﬂag leaf, ABA, days to anthesis, senescence, root architecture and length, seedling andplant height, the maximum quantum efﬁciency of photosystem II, and shoot and root Naexclusion (reviewed by Choudhary et al., 2019 and Goel et al., 2020) [ 417,508]. The useof favorable allele identiﬁcation by allele-speciﬁc markers identiﬁed drought adaptation-associated genes encoding functions related to a transcription factor ( Dreb1 ), a cell wallinvertase ( TaCwi-A1 ), and lignin promotion ( COMT-3B ) [515]. Additionally, waterloggingtolerance-associated QTLs have also been identiﬁed in wheat [439,516].Improving wheat drought tolerance through genetic engineering has been reported [ 517].Transgenic wheat expressing osmolyte-related genes with improved tolerance to drought(pyrroline carboxylate synthase P5CS), salt and drought (mannitol-1-phosphate dehydroge-nase mtlD ), heat, salt, and drought (betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase BADH, betaA ) hasbeen successful [ 396,518–523]. In addition, overexpression of transporter proteins (TaFER-5B Ferritin) leads to heat, cold, and drought tolerance in transgenic wheat [ 452]. Moreover,the expression of chaperons such as Cold shock protein SeCspA, and HV A1 (LEA), en-hanced water deﬁcit tolerance in wheat [ 524,525]. Expression of other stress-associatedproteins such as AISAP ,TdPIP2 , and TaPYL4 enhances drought, osmotic, and salinity stresstolerance (Table 2) [453,454,526].Overexpression of C4 photosynthetic genes like PEPC and PPDK improved droughtand high-temperature tolerance in wheat transgenic lines and also increased grain yield, rootsystem as well as higher osmolytes and photosynthetic capability [ 401,455,456,527] (Table 2).Another carbon metabolism-associated gene encoding a fructan exohydrolase (1-FEH w3 )when overexpressed increases wheat grain yield under drought conditions [528].Recent reports on transcription factors gene modulation/overexpression in wheat haveshown to improve tolerance to several abiotic stresses, mainly drought, salinity, and lowtemperature; accordingly , successful results have been obtained by overexpression of SNAC1 ,T aNAC69 ,T aBZR2 ,T aWRKY2 ,AtWRKY30 ,T aERF3 ,AtDREB1A ,GmDREB1 ,T aDREB3 ,T aCBF5L ,HaHB4 ,AtHDG11 ,T aSHN1 ,T abZIP2 ,T aNF-YB4 (Table 2) [457,458,473,529,529–535].Other regulatory proteins that belong to poorly attended areas of abiotic stress toler-ance are the roles of post-transcriptional and post-translational regulation, which includealternative polyadenylation, alternative splicing, riboswitches, differential RNA stabil-ity/decay, specific RNA transport/localization, RNA modification, differential translation,post-translation modifications, protein subcellular localization, stability, and activity [ 536].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 26 of 50In wheat, an outstanding example of the role of post-translational modification of smallubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMOylation) in abiotic responses has been reported. Overexpres-sion of cysteine protease OVERLY TOLERANT TO SALT-1 (AtOTS1) improved droughttolerance and better growth and physiological traits (increasing photosynthesis and chloro-phyll content, and delayed senescence) in wheat [ 460]. In addition, overexpression of phos-phoenolpyruvate carboxylase kinase-related kinase gene ( TaPEPKR2 ) enhanced drought,osmotic, and heat stress tolerance in transgenic wheat tolerance phenotype is linked withbetter root system development (Table 2) [ 459]. Moreover, transgenic wheat over-expressingthe Calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinase TaCIPK23 gene showed tolerance todrought stress [ 537]. Identification of wheat stress-tolerant gene alleles/variants for use astargets for manipulation is widened by wheat pan-genome studies [538].Genome editing tools open new possibilities to make targeted modiﬁcations in thewheat genome; in fact, improved drought tolerance has been obtained by the CRISPR-Cas9 system editing TaDREB2 and TaERF3 multi-targeted wheat genes [ 461] (Table 2). Inaddition, the beneﬁcial effects of effective microbes in mitigating moderate and severeabiotic stress in wheat have been reported (Table 3) [77,79,489,490,494–499].3.4. Corn (Zea mays L.)As it occurs in most crops, maize growth and productivity are also severely affectedby most abiotic stresses. This cereal crop is the most important in terms of global produc-tion. Enhancing maize stress resilience through adaptive strategies is crucial to achievingthis goal.Considerable breeding efforts have identiﬁed and utilized allelic variance that con-fers abiotic stress tolerance in maize. QTLs identiﬁcation/introgression and marker-assisted selection molecular breeding (QTLian breeding) has also been used to improvedrought, waterlogging, heat, cold, and salinity tolerance in maize (extensively reviewedin[201,417,439,539–541]). Selected traits for such purposes include cell membrane thermo-stability, germination index, emergence rate, seedling height, leaf ﬁring and temperature,chlorophyll content, low anthesis-silking interval, brace roots, root length, root corticalaerenchyma, shoot and root fresh and dry weight, grain weight, grain yield per plant,kernels per ear, ear length, and reduced kernel abortion, among others [ 417,541]. Doublehaploid (DH) technology has been widely and successfully used in maize, where more than200,000 DH lines have been developed to obtain elite climate-resilient maize cultivars [ 542].GWAS has identiﬁed gene variants and markers for maize abiotic stress-toleranceimprovement [ 543]. Importantly, root architecture plasticity QTLs as well as genes identiﬁedby transcriptomic approaches under water-deﬁcit conditions are closely related, as mostof them are speciﬁc and most regulated in the cortex of the mature root zone and theelongation zone changes in the root tip, comprising functions associated with cell wallreorganization, allowing continued root growth in water-deﬁcit conditions [ 416]. Thesepieces of evidence show clear root-plasticity and stress-tolerance productivity relationshipswith multiple identiﬁed QTLs and promising candidate genes to increase stress tolerancein crops. These ﬁndings are in agreement with maize hybrids that show higher root density,have better water use, biomass accumulation, and higher yield potential, associated withheterosis [ 544]. Attention should be considered on stress-responsive alternative splicingvariants, which have been identiﬁed in maize to affect root function and structure and cellwall properties; in addition, changes in alternative splicing occur in a tissue-dependent anddevelopmental stage-dependent manner in response to stress [416].Genomic selection studies identified 77 abiotic stress tolerance SNPs related to ten tran-scription factors involved in phytohormonal signaling, stomatal closure, photosynthesis, androot development [ 545]. Abiotic stress tolerance-related genes from local landraces and wildrelatives have enormous potential as genetic resources to enhance abiotic stress tolerance inmaize. That is the case of Zea parviglumis (teosinte) and Tripsacum , or waterlogging-tolerantwild maize Zea nicaraguensis [201,546,547]. These genetic resources can be significantlybroadened by maize pan-genome and pan-transcriptome approaches [548–550].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 27 of 50Numerous differentially expressed genes have been identiﬁed in water-stressed maizeplants, which provide candidate genes for stress tolerance [ 551,552]. Expressing genes forcompatible osmolytes or osmoprotectants such as amino acids and sugars, which assistosmotic adjustment, has been successfully used to improve water use efﬁciency understressing and non-stressing conditions, as stated above. Yield improvement was observedwhen trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase is expressed in maize ears under both droughtand well-watered conditions [ 33]. On the other hand, bacterial cold shock proteins (CSP S)are important bacterial RNA chaperones that maintain RNA stability for bacterial acclima-tization to low temperature and drought stress, whose expression in transgenic maizeconferred tolerance to drought stress and improved grain yield under water-deﬁcient con-ditions [ 463]. Moreover, the expression of CspB protein leads to drought-tolerant transgenicmaize (Genuity®DroughtGuard ™, MON 87460 event) and other drought-tolerant withherbicide-resistance and/or insect-resistance were developed and successfully used underﬁeld conditions (reviewed in [ 135]). In addition, pyramid heterologous co-overexpressionofbetA (encoding choline dehydrogenase from Escherichia coli ) and TsVP (encoding V-H+-PPase from Thellungiella halophila ) resulted in increased glycinebetaine content and H+-PPase activity, solute accumulation, relative water content (RWC), decreased cell damage,and higher yields under drought stress in transgenic maize plants [ 462] (Table 2). Het-erologous expression of bacterial Vitreoscilla hemoglobin (VHb) increases waterloggingtolerance in transgenic maize due to improvements in root and shoot traits [ 464]. Anotherimportant trait is stomatal density and morphology, which impact CO 2uptake and tran-spiration. These aspects are promising targets to improve water-use efﬁciency; in thisrespect, it should be noted that the heterologous overexpression of AtSDD1 (encodingsubtilisin-like protease STOMATAL DENSITY AND DISTRIBUTION1) in maize leads toenhanced drought tolerance by reducing stomatal density [465].Notably, signaling components involved in abiotic stress response are also key targetsfor crop improvement, which is the case of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK).Heterologous constitutive expression of NPK1 in maize increased leaf number, photo-synthesis rates, and kernel weights under drought stress, leading to improved droughttolerance [553].Controlling transcription factors has emerged as a promising tool for controllingthe expression of multiple stress-responsive genes under multiple stressing actual ﬁeldconditions. Transcription factor overexpression has been successfully used in maize toenhance abiotic stress tolerance, mainly drought, salinity, and high/low temperature.A common ﬁnding is that overexpression of transcription factors confers tolerance to morethan one abiotic stress and sometimes also modiﬁes disease resistance [ 473]. Improvedgrowth and corn yields were reported in transgenic maize-overexpressing ZmNF-YB2 ,under ﬁeld relatively severe drought conditions [ 554]. In addition, transgenic maizeoverexpressing OsMYB55 increased drought and high-temperature tolerance by reducinglipidperoxidation and ROS levels [ 466]. Waterlogging tolerance has also been improved inmaize plants overexpressing ZmERB180 [467] (Table 2).Top biological regulators such as long non-coding RNA (lncRNAs) have been identi-ﬁed in response to combined abiotic stress (boron and salinity) in a deep RNAseq analysisin the hyper-arid Lluteno maize landrace from the Atacama Desert, where 1710 lncRNAsturned out to be responsive to both stresses’ combination [ 555]. This set of lncRNAscould represent biomarkers and key targets acting at epigenomic, transcriptional, andpost-transcriptional levels in maize.Epigenetic DNA methylation modiﬁcation-related genes have been involved in cold-stress tolerant maize, for example, root-speciﬁc hypomethylation of the ZmMI1 gene aswell as genome-wide global methylation shift [ 486]. Moreover, RNAi technology on PDH,POK, MAPK, PLD proteins, and 11 miRNAs has been successfully used to improve droughttolerance in this crop [486].Improved grain yield under ﬁeld drought stress has been obtained by the CRISPR-Cas9 system editing the ARGOS8 maize gene [ 468]. Maize salinity tolerance has also beenInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 28 of 50obtained by editing ZmHKT1 using the CRISPR-Cas9 system [ 469] (Table 2). MultiplexedCRISPR/Cas9-based high-throughput targeted mutagenesis [ 556], multigene insertion,and chromosomal engineering [ 557], as well as other CRISPR/Cas applications (heterosis,haploid induction), will boost multi-stress-resilient smart maize and other crops [487].Effective microbes have also been shown to alleviate salt and drought stress in maizewhen used as inoculants [77,79,489,490,494,495,500–503] (Table 3).4. Conclusions and Future PerspectivesThe development of climate-resilient cultivars (climate-smart crops) is pivotal toa sustainable way to provide sufﬁcient food and energy supplies in a climate-changingworld. Since yield and abiotic stress tolerance traits are usually unlinked, it is hard toselect both characters by classic breeding. Thus, omics and site-directed mutagenesisapproaches could achieve improving stress tolerance on already high-yield selected linesor simultaneously using these novel techniques.Some considerations: Genome/Epigenome (nuclear and organellar) editing and manipulation of key multi-stress-responsive genes or transcription factors have been shown to confer increasedtolerance to multiple stressors; Altering expression of organellar DNA damage repair system involved genes canlead to more efﬁcient mutagenesis, genetic diversity enhancement, and toleranceimprovement to ROS/oxidative stress; Emphasis must be considered on post-transcriptional and post-translational regulators(including the huge diversity of types of lncRNAs and recently discovered glycoRNAs)through the use of multiple omics (PlantOmics) integrating genome-wide associationsstudies and pan-genomic/pan-transcriptomic strategies; Plant phenomics will accelerate plant breeding targeted and successful stress-resilientcultivars and their wild relatives under real ﬁeld conditions; It should be taken advantage of multiple cross-talk signaling among diverse challeng-ing atmospheric and soil abiotic (and biotic) factors such as drought, salinity, nutrientdeﬁciency, soil properties, pollution, metal, submergence, anoxia, heat, low/hightemperature, wind, light, UV , CO 2, methane, N 2O, O 3, osmotic, oxidative stress, inenergy-(sugars), organ-(aerial, roots), tissue-, and phenology-dependent manner; CRISPR/Cas9 multiple gene editing for simultaneous expression of structural andregulatory genes represents a promising strategy in order to develop multi-stress-resilient crops; Given the evident role of sugar sensing and signaling in abiotic stress responses (sugar-insensitive Arabidopsis mutants are tolerant to abiotic and salt stress), we believethat sugar signaling pathways are key targets to reducing sugar’s negative feedbackeffect on photosynthesis, which could lead to abiotic stress tolerant phenotypes andincreased yields in crops; Undoubtedly, much remains to be discovered and learned from the study of resurrec-tion plants and their associated microbiomes, particularly those tolerant to extremeabiotic stress, i.e., Bryum argenteum ,Craterostigma plantagineum ,Pseudocrossidium repli-catum ,Selaginella lepidophylla ,Syntrichia (Tortula) ruralis , the Arctic and Antarctic mossSanionia uncinata , desert moss Syntrichia caninervis ; Sustainable management of agricultural water and soil resources; Diversiﬁcation of food supply (nutritional diversity) with local plant species; Multi-stress experimentation in the laboratory considering variable intensity andtiming and recovery capacities related to photosynthesis and growth parameters; The enrichment of the seed and soil microbiomes through the use of microbe-effective-based inoculants undoubtedly contributes to the integrated management of crops tomitigate the effects of the multiple stressors that challenge them. The integration of all available molecular tools to develop smart climate crops withoutyield penalty and with no increase in cultivated land area is absolutely necessary.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 29 of 50Author Contributions: Conceptualization, G.I.; visualization, A.Q.-J.; writing-original draft prepa-ration, M.A.V .-L., A.A.-B. and G.I.; writing-review and editing, M.A.V .-L., A.A.-B. and G.I.; fund-ing acquisition, G.I. and M.A.V .-L. All authors have read and agreed to the published version ofthe manuscript.Funding: This research was supported by the Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnolog ía (CONACYT,Mexico), grant No. A1-S-9815 to G.I. Moreover, M.A.V .-L. is grateful for ﬁnancial support fromCONACYT (Mexico) A1-S-35357 grant.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Acknowledgments: We apologize to the authors whose work could not be cited due to limited space.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Springmann, M.; Clark, M.; Mason-D’Croz, D.; Wiebe, K.; Bodirsky, B.L.; Lassaletta, L.; de Vries, W.; Vermeulen, S.J.; Herrero, M.;Carlson, K.M.; et al. Options for keeping the food system within environmental limits. Nature 2018 ,562, 519–525. [CrossRef][PubMed]2. Malhi, Y.; Franklin, J.; Seddon, N.; Solan, M.; Turner, M.G.; Field, C.B.; Knowlton, N. Climate change and ecosystems: Threats,opportunities and solutions. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B 2020 ,375, 20190104. [CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Feeley, K.J.; Bravo-Avila, C.; Fadrique, B.; Perez, T.M.; Zuleta, D. Climate-driven changes in the composition of New World plantcommunities. Nat. Clim. Chang. 2020 ,10, 965–970. [CrossRef]4. Fedoroff, N.V .; Battisti, D.S.; Beachy, R.N.; Cooper, P .J.M.; Fischhoff, D.A.; Hodges, C.N.; Knauf, V .C.; Lobell, D.; Mazur, B.J.;Molden, D.; et al. Radically rethinking agriculture for the 21st century. Science 2010 ,327, 833–834. [CrossRef]5. Tilman, D.; Balzee, C.; Hill, J.; Befort, B.L. Global food demand and the sustainable intensiﬁcation of agriculture. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2011 ,108, 20260–20264. [CrossRef]6. FAO. The Future of Food and Agriculture-Trends and Challenges ; Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations: Rome,Italy, 2017; pp. 1–163. Available online: https://www.fao.org/3/i6583e/i6583e.pdf (accessed on 14 May 2022).7. Anderson, R.; Bayer, P .E.; Edwards, D. Climate change and the need for agricultural adaptation. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 2020 ,56,197–202. [CrossRef]8. Zhu, J.-K. Abiotic stress signaling and responses in plants. Cell2016 ,167, 313–324. [CrossRef]9. He, M.; He, C.-Q.; Ding, N.-Z. Abiotic stresses: General defenses of land plants and chances for engineering multistress tolerance.Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 1771. [CrossRef]10. D’Odorico, P .; Chiarelli, D.D.; Rosa, L.; Bini, A.; Zilberman, D.; Rulli, M.C. The global value of water in agriculture. Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA 2020 ,117, 21985–21993. [CrossRef]11. Mukarram, M.; Choudhary, S.; Kurjak, D.; Petek, A.; Masroor, M.; Khan, A. Drought: Sensing, signalling, effects and tolerance inhigher plants. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 1291–1300. [CrossRef]12. Zhang, H.; Li, Y.; Zhu, J.-K. Developing naturally stress-resistant crops for a sustainable agriculture. Nat. Plants 2018 ,4, 989–996.[CrossRef] [PubMed]13. Bartels, D.; Hussain, S.S. Resurrection plants: Physiology and molecular biology. In Plant Desiccation Tolerance. Ecological Studies215; Lüttge, U., Beck, E., Bartels, D., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2011; pp. 339–364. [CrossRef]14. Leprince, O.; Pellizzaro, A.; Berriri, S.; Buitink, J. Late seed maturation: Drying without dying. J. Exp. Bot. 2017 ,68, 827–841.[CrossRef] [PubMed]15. Farrant, J.M.; Moore, J.P . Programming desiccation-tolerance: From plants to seeds to resurrection plants. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol.2011 ,14, 340–345. [CrossRef] [PubMed]16. Sachdev, S.; Ansari, S.A.; Ansari, M.I.; Fujita, M.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Abiotic stress and reactive oxygen species: Generation,signaling, and defense mechanisms. Antioxidants 2021 ,10, 277. [CrossRef]17. Ilyas, M.; Nisar, M.; Khan, N.; Hazrat, A.; Khan, A.H.; Hayat, K.; Fahad, S.; Khan, A.; Ullah, A. Drought tolerance strategies inplants: A mechanistic approach. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2021 ,40, 926–944. [CrossRef]18. Simkin, A.J.; L ópez-Calcagno, P .E.; Raines, C.A. Feeding the world: Improving photosynthetic efﬁciency for sustainable cropproduction. J. Exp. Bot. 2019 ,70, 1119–1140. [CrossRef]19. López-Calcagno, P .E.; Brown, K.L.; Simkin, A.J.; Fisk, S.J.; Vialet-Chabrand, S.; Lawson, T.; Raines, C.A. Stimulating photosyntheticprocesses increases productivity and water-use efﬁciency in the ﬁeld. Nat. Plants 2020 ,6, 1054–1063. [CrossRef]20. Condon, A.G. Drying times: Plant traits to improve crop water use efﬁciency and yield. J. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,71, 2239–2252. [CrossRef]21. Seo, P .J.; Park, C. Auxin homeostasis during lateral root development under drought condition. Plant Signal Behav. 2009 ,4,1002–1004. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 30 of 5022. Chen, H.; Li, Z.; Xiong, L. A plant microRNA regulates the adaptation of roots to drought stress. FEBS Lett. 2012 ,586, 1742–1747.[CrossRef]23. Abid, M.; Ali, S.; Qi, L.K.; Zahoor, R.; Tian, Z.; Jiang, D.; Snider, J.L.; Dai, T. Physiological and biochemical changes during droughtand recovery periods at tillering and jointing stages in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.).Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 4615. [CrossRef]24. Blum, A. Osmotic adjustment is a prime drought stress adaptive engine in support of plant production. Plant Cell Environ. 2017 ,40, 4–10. [CrossRef] [PubMed]25. Zulﬁqar, F.; Akram, N.A.; Ashraf, M. Osmoprotection in plants under abiotic stresses: New insights into a classical phenomenon.Planta 2020 ,251, 3. [CrossRef] [PubMed]26. Singh, M.; Kumar, J.; Singh, S.; Singh, V .P .; Prasad, S.M. Roles of osmoprotectants in improving salinity and drought tolerance inplants: A review. Rev. Environ. Sci. Biotechnol. 2015 ,14, 407–426. [CrossRef]27. Giri, J. Glycinebetaine and abiotic stress tolerance in plants. Plant Signal Behav. 2011 ,6, 1746–1751. [CrossRef] [PubMed]28. Hayat, S.; Hayat, Q.; Alyemeni, M.N.; Wani, A.S.; Pichtel, J.; Ahmad, A. Role of proline under changing environments. PlantSignal. Behav. 2012 ,7, 1456–1466. [CrossRef] [PubMed]29. Conde, A.; Regalado, A.; Rodrigues, D.; Costa, J.M.; Blumwald, E.; Chaves, M.M.; Ger ós, H. Polyols in grape berry: Transport andmetabolic adjustments as a physiological strategy for water-deﬁcit stress tolerance in grapevine. J. Exp. Bot. 2014 ,66, 889–906.[CrossRef]30. Iturriaga, G.; Su árez, R.; Nova-Franco, B. Trehalose metabolism: From osmoprotection to signaling. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2009 ,10,3793–3810. [CrossRef]31. Avonce, N.; Mendoza-Vargas, A.; Morett, E.; Iturriaga, G. Insights on the evolution of trehalose biosynthesis. BMC Evol. Biol.2006 ,6, 109. [CrossRef]32. Fichtner, F.; Lunn, J.E. The role of Trehalose 6-phosphate (Tre6P) in plant metabolism and development. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol.2021 ,72, 737–760. [CrossRef]33. Nuccio, M.; Wu, J.; Mowers, R.; Zhou, H.-P .; Meghji, M.; Primavesi, L.F.; Paul, M.J.; Chen, X.; Gao, Y.; Emdadul Haque, E.; et al.Expression of trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase in maize ears improves yield in well-watered and drought conditions. Nat.Biotechnol. 2015 ,33, 862–869. [CrossRef] [PubMed]34. Sengupta, A.; Chakraborty, M.; Saha, J.; Gupta, B.; Gupta, K. Polyamines: Osmoprotectants in plant abiotic stress adaptation. InOsmolytes and Plants Acclimation to Changing Environment: Emerging Omics Technologies ; Iqbal, N., Nazar, R., Khan, N.A., Eds.;Springer: New Delhi, India, 2016; pp. 97–127. [CrossRef]35. Khajuria, A.; Sharma, N.; Bhardwaj, R.; Ohri, P . Emerging role of polyamines in plant stress tolerance. Curr. Protein Pept. Sci. 2018 ,19, 1114–1123. [CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Van den Ende, W. Multifunctional fructans and rafﬁnose family oligosaccharides. Front. Plant Sci. 2013 ,4, 247. [CrossRef][PubMed]37. Nagao, M.; Oku, K.; Minami, A.; Mizuno, K.; Sakurai, M.; Arakawa, K.; Fujikawa, S.; Takezawa, D. Accumulation of theanderose inassociation with development of freezing tolerance in the moss Physcomitrella patens .Phytochemistry 2006 ,67, 702–709. [CrossRef][PubMed]38. Omari Alzahrani, F. Metabolic engineering of osmoprotectants to elucidate the mechanism(s) of salt stress tolerance in crop plants.Planta 2021 ,253, 24. [CrossRef]39. Hasanuzzaman, M.; Bhuyan, M.H.M.B.; Zulﬁqar, F.; Raza, A.; Mohsin, S.M.; Mahmud, J.A.; Fujita, M.; Fotopoulos, V . Reactiveoxygen species and antioxidant defense in plants under abiotic stress: Revisiting the crucial role of a universal defense regulator.Antioxidants 2020 ,9, 681. [CrossRef]40. Wang, X.; Liu, H.; Yu, F.; Hu, B.; Jia, Y.; Sha, H.; Zhao, H. Differential activity of the antioxidant defense system and alterations inthe accumulation of osmolyte and reactive oxygen species under drought stress and recovery in rice ( Oryza sativa L.) tillering. Sci.Rep. 2019 ,9, 8543. [CrossRef]41. Pommerrenig, B.; Ludewig, F.; Cvetkovic, J.; Trentmann, O.; Klemens, P .A.W.; Neuhaus, H.E. In concert: Orchestrated changes incarbohydrate homeostasis are critical for plant abiotic stress tolerance. Plant Cell Physiol. 2018 ,59, 1290–1299. [CrossRef]42. Broad, R.C.; Bonneau, J.P .; Hellens, R.P .; Johnson, A.A.T. Manipulation of ascorbate biosynthetic, recycling, and regulatorypathways for improved abiotic stress tolerance in plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 1790. [CrossRef]43. Jee, H. Size dependent classiﬁcation of heat shock proteins: A mini-review. J. Exerc. Rehabil. 2016 ,12, 255–259. [CrossRef]44. Jacob, P .; Hirt, H.; Bendahmane, A. The heat-shock protein/chaperone network and multiple stress resistance. Plant Biotechnol. J.2017 ,15, 405–414. [CrossRef] [PubMed]45. Hong-Bo, S.; Zong-Suo, L.; Ming-An, S. LEA proteins in higher plants: Structure, function, gene expression and regulation.Colloids Surf. B Biointerfaces 2005 ,45, 131–135. [CrossRef] [PubMed]46. Hibshman, J.D.; Goldstein, B. LEA motifs promote desiccation tolerance in vivo. BMC Biol. 2021 ,19, 263. [CrossRef] [PubMed]47. Shinozaki, K.; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki, K. Gene networks involved in drought stress response and tolerance. J. Exp. Bot. 2007 ,58,221–227. [CrossRef]48. Lim, C.W.; Lim, S.; Baek, W.; Lee, S.C. The pepper late embryogenesis abundant protein CaLEA1 acts in regulating abscisic acidsignaling, drought and salt stress response. Physiol. Plant. 2015 ,154, 526–542. [CrossRef]49. Afzal, Z.; Howton, T.C.; Sun, Y.; Mukhtar, M.S. The roles of aquaporins in plant stress responses. J. Dev. Biol. 2016 ,4, 9. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 31 of 5050. Benga, G. On the deﬁnition, nomenclature and classiﬁcation of water channel proteins (aquaporins and relatives). Mol. Asp. Med.2012 ,33, 514–517. [CrossRef]51. Yepes-Molina, L.; B árzana, G.; Carvajal, M. Controversial regulation of gene expression and protein transduction of aquaporinsunder drought and salinity stress. Plants 2020 ,9, 1662. [CrossRef]52. Velmurugan, A.; Swarnam, P .; Subramani, T.; Meena, B.; Kaledhonkar, M.J. Water demand and salinity. In Desalination-Challengesand Opportunities ; Farahani, M.H.D.A., Vatanpour, V ., Taheri, A., Eds.; IntechOpen Limited: London, UK, 2020; pp. 1–11.[CrossRef]53. Arif, Y.; Singh, P .; Siddiqui, H.; Bajguz, A.; Hayat, S. Salinity induced physiological and biochemical changes in plants: An omicapproach towards salt stress tolerance. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,156, 64–77. [CrossRef]54. van Zelm, E.; Zhang, Y.; Testerink, C. Salt tolerance mechanisms of plants. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 2020 ,71, 403–433. [CrossRef]55. Joshi, S.; Nath, J.; Singh, A.K.; Pareek, A.; Joshi, R. Ion transporters and their regulatory signal transduction mechanisms forsalinity tolerance in plants. Physiol. Plant. 2022 ,174, e13702. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Zhao, S.; Zhang, Q.; Liu, M.; Zhou, H.; Ma, C.; Wang, P . Regulation of plant responses to salt stress. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 4609.[CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Skalak, J.; Nicolas, K.L.; Vankova, R.; Hejatko, J. Signal integration in plant abiotic stress responses via multistep phosphorelaysignaling. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 644823. [CrossRef] [PubMed]58. Chen, K.; Li, G.J.; Bressan, R.A.; Song, C.P .; Zhu, J.K.; Zhao, Y. Abscisic acid dynamics, signaling, and functions in plants. J. Integr.Plant Biol. 2020 ,62, 25–54. [CrossRef]59. Verma, V .; Ravindran, P .; Kumar, P .P . Plant hormone-mediated regulation of stress responses. BMC Plant Biol. 2016 ,16, 86.[CrossRef]60. Khan, S.-A.; Li, M.-Z.; Wang, S.-M.; Yin, H.-J. Revisiting the role of plant transcription factors in the battle against abiotic stress.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 1634. [CrossRef]61. Wang, P .; Xue, L.; Batelli, G.; Lee, S.; Hou, Y.J.; Van Oosten, M.J.; Zhang, H.; Tao, W.A.; Zhu, J.-K. Quantitative phosphoproteomicsidentiﬁes SnRK2 protein kinase substrates and reveals the effectors of abscisic acid action. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2013 ,110,11205–11210. [CrossRef]62. Ali, M.-S.; Baek, K.-H. Jasmonic acid signaling pathway in response to abiotic stresses in plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 621.[CrossRef]63. Mostofa, M.G.; Li, W.; Nguyen, K.H.; Fujita, M.; Tran, L.P . Strigolactones in plant adaptation to abiotic stresses: An emergingavenue of plant research. Plant Cell Environ. 2018 ,41, 2227–2243. [CrossRef]64. Rhaman, M.S.; Imran, S.; Karim, M.M.; Chakrobortty, J.; Mahamud, M.A.; Sarker, P .; Tahjib-Ul-Arif, M.; Robin, A.H.K.; Ye, W.;Murata, Y.; et al. 5-aminolevulinic acid-mediated plant adaptive responses to abiotic stress. Plant Cell Rep. 2021 ,40, 1451–1469.[CrossRef]65. Tahjib-Ul-Arif, M.; Zahan, M.I.; Karim, M.M.; Imran, S.; Hunter, C.T.; Islam, M.S.; Mia, M.A.; Hannan, M.A.; Rhaman, M.S.;Hossain, M.A.; et al. Citric Acid-Mediated Abiotic Stress Tolerance in Plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 7235. [CrossRef] [PubMed]66. Zhou, X.; Joshi, S.; Khare, T.; Patil, S.; Shang, J.; Kumar, V . Nitric oxide, crosstalk with stress regulators and plant abiotic stresstolerance. Plant Cell Rep. 2021 ,40, 1395–1414. [CrossRef] [PubMed]67. Arnao, M.B.; Hern ández-Ruiz, J. Melatonin: A new plant hormone and/or a plant master regulator? Trends Plant Sci. 2019 ,24,38–48. [CrossRef] [PubMed]68. Takahashi, F.; Hanada, K.; Kondo, T.; Shinozaki, K. Hormone-like peptides and small coding genes in plant stress signaling anddevelopment. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 2019 ,51, 88–95. [CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Liu, Z.; Hou, S.; Rodrigues, O.; Wang, P .; Luo, D.; Munemasa, S.; Lei, J.; Liu, J.; Ortiz-Morea, F.A.; Wang, X.; et al. Phytocytokinesignalling reopens stomata in plant immunity and water loss. Nature 2022 ,605, 332–339. [CrossRef] [PubMed]70. Anwar, A.; Kim, J.-K. Transgenic breeding approaches for improving abiotic stress tolerance: Recent progress and futureperspective. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 2695. [CrossRef]71. Chang, Y.-N.; Zhu, C.; Jiang, J.; Zhang, H.; Jian-Kang Zhu, J.-K.; Duan, C.-G. Epigenetic regulation in plant abiotic stress responses.J. Integr. Plant Biol. 2020 ,62, 563–580. [CrossRef]72. Jha, U.C.; Nayyar, H.; Jha, R.; Khurshid, M.; Zhou, M.; Mantri, N.; Siddique, K.H.M. Long non-coding RNAs: Emerging playersregulating plant abiotic stress response and adaptation. BMC Plant Biol. 2020 ,20, 466. [CrossRef]73. Kim, J.-M.; To, T.K.; Matsui, A.; Tanoi, K.; Kobayashi, N.I.; Matsuda, F.; Habu, Y.; Ogawa, D.; Sakamoto, T.; Matsunaga, S.; et al.Acetate-mediated novel survival strategy against drought in plants. Nat. Plants 2017 ,3, 17097. [CrossRef]74. Suárez, R.; Wong, A.; Ram írez, M.; Barraza, A.; Orozco, M.C.; Cevallos, M.A.; Lara, M.; Hern ández, G.; Iturriaga, G. Improvementof drought tolerance and grain yield in common bean by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase in rhizobia. Mol.Plant-Microbe Interact. 2008 ,21, 958–966. [CrossRef]75. Ilangumaran, G.; Smith, D.L. Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria in Amelioration of Salinity Stress: A Systems BiologyPerspective. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1768. [CrossRef] [PubMed]76. Boutasknit, A.; Baslam, M.; Ait-El-Mokhtar, M.; Anli, M.; Ben-Laouane, R.; Ait-Rahou, Y.; Mitsui, T.; Douira, A.; El Modafar,C.; Wahbi, S.; et al. Assemblage of indigenous arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and green waste compost enhance drought stresstolerance in carob ( Ceratonia siliqua L.) trees. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 22835. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 32 of 5077. Kumar, A.; Verma, J.P . Does Plant—Microbe interaction confer stress tolerance in plants: A review? Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,207,41–52. [CrossRef]78. Ma, Y.; Rajkumar, M.; Oliveira, R.S.; Zhang, C.; Freitas, H. Potential of plant beneﬁcial bacteria and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiin phytoremediation of metal-contaminated saline soils. J. Hazard. Mater. 2019 ,379, 120813. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Etesami, H.; Maheshwari, D.K. Use of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPRs) with multiple plant growth promotingtraits in stress agriculture: Action mechanisms and future prospects. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2018 ,156, 225–246. [CrossRef][PubMed]80. Singh, P .; Chauhan, P .K.; Upadhyay, S.K.; Singh, R.K.; Dwivedi, P .; Wang, J.; Jain, D.; Jiang, M. Mechanistic insights and potentialuse of siderophores producing microbes in rhizosphere for mitigation of stress in plants grown in degraded land. Front. Microbiol.2022 ,13, 898979. [CrossRef]81. Bhagat, N.; Raghav, M.; Dubey, S.; Bedi, N. Bacterial exopolysaccharides: Insight into their role in plant abiotic stress tolerance.J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2021 ,31, 1045–1059. [CrossRef]82. Hanaka, A.; Ozimek, E.; Reszczy´ nska, E.; Jaroszuk- ´Sciseł, J.; Stolarz, M. Plant tolerance to drought dtress in the presence ofsupporting bacteria and fungi: An efﬁcient strategy in horticulture. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 390. [CrossRef]83. Tang, H.; Hassan, M.U.; Feng, L.; Nawaz, M.; Shah, A.N.; Qari, S.H.; Liu, Y.; Miao, J. The Critical role of arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi to improve drought tolerance and nitrogen use efﬁciency in crops. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 919166. [CrossRef]84. Guler, N.S.; Pehlivan, N.; Karaoglu, S.A.; Guzel, S.; Bozdeveci, A. Trichoderma atroviride ID20G inoculation ameliorates droughtstress-induced damages by improving antioxidant defence in maize seedlings. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2016 ,38, 132. [CrossRef]85. Singh, D.; Singh, V .; Gupta, V .; Shukla, R.; Prabha, R.; Sarma, B.; Patel, J. Microbial inoculation in rice regulates antioxidativereactions and defense related genes to mitigate drought stress. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 4818. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Cañada-Coyote, E.; Ram írez-Pimentel, J.G.; Aguirre-Mancilla, C.L.; Raya-P érez, J.C.; Acosta-Garc ía, G.; Iturriaga, G. Trichodermaharzianum mutants enhance antagonism against phytopathogenic fungi, phosphorus assimilation and drought tolerance inJalapeño pepper plants. Chil. J. Agric. Res. 2021 ,81, 270–280. [CrossRef]87. Lee, J.; Chin, J.H.; Ahn, S.N.; Koh, H.-J. Brief history and perspectives on plant breeding. In Current Technologies in Plant MolecularBreeding: A Guide Book of Plant Molecular Breeding for Researchers ; Koh, H.-J., Kwon, S.-Y., Thomson, M., Eds.; Springer: Dordrecht,The Netherlands, 2015; pp. 1–14. ISBN 978-94-017-9996-6.88. Liu, J.; Fernie, A.R.; Yan, J. Crop breeding—From experience-based selection to precision design. J. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,256, 153313.[CrossRef] [PubMed]89. Ahmar, S.; Gill, R.A.; Jung, K.-H.; Faheem, A.; Qasim, M.U.; Mubeen, M.; Zhou, W. Conventional and molecular techniques fromsimple breeding to speed breeding in crop plants: Recent advances and future outlook. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 2590. [CrossRef]90. Sattar, M.N.; Iqbal, Z.; Al-Khayri, J.M.; Jain, S.M. Induced genetic variations in fruit trees using new breeding tools: Food securityand climate resilience. Plants 2021 ,10, 1347. [CrossRef]91. Wieczorek, A.; Wright, M. History of agricultural biotechnology: How crop development has evolved. Nat. Educ. Knowl. 2012 ,3, 9.92. Colasuonno, P .; Marcotuli, I.; Gadaleta, A.; Soriano, J.M. From genetic maps to QTL Cloning: An overview for durum wheat.Plants 2021 ,10, 315. [CrossRef]93. Yang, H.-B.; Kang, W.-H.; Nahm, S.-H.; Kang, B.-C.; Yang, H.-B.; Kang, W.-H.; Kang, B.-C.; Nahm, S.-H. Methods for developingmolecular markers. In Current Technologies in Plant Molecular Breeding ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2015; Chapter 2.94. Oladosu, Y.; Raﬁi, M.Y.; Samuel, C.; Fatai, A.; Magaji, U.; Kareem, I.; Kamarudin, Z.S.; Muhammad, I.; Kolapo, K. Droughtresistance in rice from conventional to molecular breeding: A Review. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 3519. [CrossRef]95. Yoon, J.B.; Kwon, S.-W.; Ham, T.-H.; Kim, S.; Thomson, M.; Hechanova, S.L.; Jena, K.K.; Park, Y. Marker-Assisted Breeding. InCurrent Technologies in Plant Molecular Breeding: A Guide Book of Plant Molecular Breeding for Researchers ; Koh, H.-J., Kwon, S.-Y.,Thomson, M., Eds.; Springer: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2015; pp. 95–144. ISBN 978-94-017-9996-6.96. Tshikunde, N.M.; Mashilo, J.; Shimelis, H.; Odindo, A. Agronomic and physiological traits, and associated Quantitative Trait Loci(QTL) affecting yield response in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.): A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 1428. [CrossRef]97. Dheer, P .; Rautela, I.; Sharma, V .; Dhiman, M.; Sharma, A.; Sharma, N.; Sharma, M.D. Evolution in crop improvement approachesand future prospects of molecular markers to CRISPR/Cas9 system. Gene 2020 ,753, 144795. [CrossRef]98. Singh, R.K.; Kota, S.; Flowers, T.J. Salt tolerance in rice: Seedling and reproductive stage QTL mapping come of age. Theor. Appl.Genet. 2021 ,1, 3. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Zhao, C.; Zhang, Y.; Du, J.; Guo, X.; Wen, W.; Gu, S.; Wang, J.; Fan, J. Crop Phenomics: Current status and perspectives. Front.Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 714. [CrossRef] [PubMed]100. Nordey, T.; Schwarz, D.; Kenyon, L.; Manickam, R.; Huat, J. Tapping the potential of grafting to improve the performance ofvegetable cropping systems in sub-Saharan Africa. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2020 ,40, 23. [CrossRef]101. Singh, H.; Sethi, S.; Kaushik, P .; Fulford, A. Grafting vegetables for mitigating environmental stresses under climate change:A review. J. Water Clim. Chang. 2020 ,11, 1784–1797. [CrossRef]102. Spanò, R.; Ferrara, M.; Gallitelli, D.; Mascia, T. The role of grafting in the resistance of tomato to viruses. Plants 2020 ,9, 1042.[CrossRef]103. Tsaballa, A.; Xanthopoulou, A.; Madesis, P .; Tsaftaris, A.; Nianiou-Obeidat, I. Vegetable grafting from a molecular point of view:The involvement of epigenetics in rootstock-scion interactions. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,11, 621999. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 33 of 50104. Mozafarian Meimandi, M.; Kappel, N. Grafting plants to improve abiotic stress tolerance. In Plant Ecophysiology and Adaptationunder Climate Change: Mechanisms and Perspectives II: Mechanisms of Adaptation and Stress Amelioration ; Hasanuzzaman, M., Ed.;Springer: Singapore, 2020; pp. 477–490. ISBN 978-981-15-2172-0.105. Aloni, R. Vascular regeneration and grafting. In Vascular Differentiation and Plant Hormones ; Aloni, R., Ed.; Springer InternationalPublishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2021; pp. 185–198.106. Baron, D.; Esteves Amaro, A.C.; Pina, A.; Ferreira, G. An overview of grafting re-establishment in woody fruit species. Sci. Hortic.2019 ,243, 84–91. [CrossRef]107. Pérez-Luna, A.; Wehenkel, C.; Prieto-Ru íz, J.Á.; López-Upton, J.; Sol ís-Gonz ález, S.; Ch ávez-Simental, J.A.; Hern ández-D íaz, J.C.Grafting in conifers: A review. Pak. J. Bot. 2020 ,52, 1369–1378. [CrossRef]108. Singh, H.; Kumar, P .; Chaudhari, S.; Edelstein, M. Tomato Grafting: A global perspective. HortScience 2017 ,52, 1328–1336.[CrossRef]109. Gaion, L.A.; Trevisan Braz, L.; Carvalho, R.F. Grafting in vegetable crops: A great technique for agriculture. Int. J. Veg. Sci. 2018 ,24, 85–102. [CrossRef]110. Chilukamarri, L.; Ashrafzadeh, S.; Leung, D.W.M. In-vitro grafting–Current applications and future prospects. Sci. Hortic. 2021 ,280, 109899. [CrossRef]111. Kumar, A.; Rathore, J.P .; Iqbal, U.; Sharma, A.; Nagar, P .K.; Mir, M.M. Rootstocks of stone fruit crops. In Production Technology ofStone Fruits ; Mir, M.M., Iqbal, U., Mir, S.A., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2021; pp. 131–169. ISBN 978-981-15-8920-1.112. Limera, C.; Sabbadini, S.; Sweet, J.B.; Mezzetti, B. New biotechnological tools for the genetic improvement of major woody fruitspecies. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1418. [CrossRef] [PubMed]113. Sidorova, T.; Miroshnichenko, D.; Kirov, I.; Pushin, A.; Dolgov, S. Effect of grafting on viral resistance of non-transgenic plumscion combined with transgenic PPV-Resistant rootstock. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 621954. [CrossRef] [PubMed]114. Bartusch, K.; Melnyk, C.W. Insights Into Plant Surgery: An overview of the multiple grafting techniques for Arabidopsis thaliana .Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 613442. [CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Vidoy-Mercado, I.; Narv áez, I.; Palomo-R íos, E.; Litz, R.E.; Barcel ó-Muñoz, A.; Pliego-Alfaro, F. Reinvigoration/Rejuvenationinduced through micrografting of tree species: Signaling through graft union. Plants 2021 ,10, 1197. [CrossRef]116. Tsutsui, H.; Notaguchi, M. The use of grafting to study systemic signaling in plants. Plant Cell Physiol. 2017 ,58, 1291–1301.[CrossRef]117. Wang, J.; Jiang, L.; Wu, R. Plant grafting: How genetic exchange promotes vascular reconnection. N. Phytol. 2017 ,214, 56–65.[CrossRef]118. Thomas, H.R.; Frank, M.H. Connecting the pieces: Uncovering the molecular basis for long-distance communication throughplant grafting. N. Phytol. 2019 ,223, 582–589. [CrossRef]119. Rasool, A.; Mansoor, S.; Bhat, K.M.; Hassan, G.I.; Baba, T.R.; Alyemeni, M.N.; Alsahli, A.A.; El-Serehy , H.A.; Paray , B.A.; Ahmad, P .Mechanisms underlying graft union formation and rootstock scion interaction in horticultural plants. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 590847.[CrossRef]120. Kapazoglou, A.; Tani, E.; Avramidou, E.V .; Abraham, E.M.; Gerakari, M.; Megariti, S.; Doupis, G.; Doulis, A.G. Epigenetic changesand transcriptional reprogramming upon woody plant grafting for crop sustainability in a changing environment. Front. PlantSci.2021 ,11, 613004. [CrossRef]121. Oladosu, Y.; Raﬁi, M.Y.; Abdullah, N.; Hussin, G.; Ramli, A.; Rahim, H.A.; Miah, G.; Usman, M. Principle and application of plantmutagenesis in crop improvement: A review. Biotechnol. Biotechnol. Equip. 2016 ,30, 1–16. [CrossRef]122. Beyaz, R.; Yildiz, M. The Use of Gamma irradiation in plant mutation breeding. In Plant Engineering ; IntechOpen: London, UK, 2017.123. Chaudhary, J.; Alisha, A.; Bhatt, V .; Chandanshive, S.; Kumar, N.; Mir, Z.; Kumar, A.; Yadav, S.K.; Shivaraj, S.M.; Sonah, H.; et al.Mutation Breeding in Tomato: Advances, Applicability and Challenges. Plants 2019 ,8, 128. [CrossRef] [PubMed]124. Chaudhary, J.; Deshmukh, R.; Sonah, H. Mutagenesis approaches and their role in crop improvement. Plants 2019 ,8, 467.[CrossRef] [PubMed]125. Jo, Y.D.; Kim, J.-B. Frequency and spectrum of radiation-induced mutations revealed by whole-genome sequencing analyses ofplants. Quantum Beam Sci. 2019 ,3, 7. [CrossRef]126. Hern ández-Muñoz, S.; Pedraza-Santos, M.E.; L ópez, P .A.; G ómez-Sanabria, J.M.; Morales-Garc ía, J.L. Mutagenesis in theimprovement of ornamental plants. Rev. Chapingo Ser. Hortic. 2019 ,25, 151–167. [CrossRef]127. Anne, S.; Lim, J.H. Mutation breeding using gamma irradiation in the development of ornamental plants: A review. Flower Res. J.2020 ,28, 102–115. [CrossRef]128. Mba, C.; Afza, R.; Bado, S.; Jain, S.M.; Anthony, P . Induced mutagenesis in plants using physical and chemical agents. In Plant cellculture: Essential methods ; Wiley-Blackwell: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2010; Chapter 7; pp. 111–130. ISBN 9780470686485.129. Ramkumar, M.K.; Senthil Kumar, S.; Gaikwad, K.; Pandey, R.; Chinnusamy, V .; Singh, N.K.; Singh, A.K.; Mohapatra, T.; Sevanthi,A.M. A Novel Stay-Green Mutant of rice with delayed leaf senescence and better harvest index confers drought tolerance. Plants2019 ,8, 375. [CrossRef]130. Kazama, Y.; Hirano, T.; Saito, H.; Liu, Y.; Ohbu, S.; Hayashi, Y.; Abe, T. Characterization of highly efﬁcient heavy-ion mutagenesisin Arabidopsis thaliana. BMC Plant Biol. 2011 ,11, 161. [CrossRef]131. Shirasawa, K.; Hirakawa, H.; Nunome, T.; Tabata, S.; Isobe, S. Genome-wide survey of artiﬁcial mutations induced by ethylmethanesulfonate and gamma rays in tomato. Plant Biotechnol. J. 2016 ,14, 51–60. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 34 of 50132. Wanga, M.A.; Shimelis, H.; Horn, L.N.; Sarsu, F. The effect of single and combined use of gamma radiation and ethylmethanesulfonate on early growth parameters in sorghum. Plants 2020 ,9, 827. [CrossRef]133. Shu, Q.Y .; Forster, B.P .; Nakagawa, H. Plant Mutation Breeding and Biotechnology , 1st ed.; FAO: Rome, Italy , 2011; ISBN 978-92-5-105000-0.134. Mullins, E.; Bresson, J.; Dalmay, T.; Dewhurst, I.C.; Epstein, M.M.; Firbank, L.G.; Guerche, P .; Hejatko, J.; Moreno, F.J.; Naegeli, H.;et al. In vivo and in vitro random mutagenesis techniques in plants. EFSA J. 2021 ,19, e06611. [CrossRef] [PubMed]135. Kumar, K.; Gambhir, G.; Dass, A.; Tripathi, A.K.; Singh, A.; Jha, A.K.; Yadava, P .; Choudhary, M.; Rakshit, S. Genetically modiﬁedcrops: Current status and future prospects. Planta 2020 ,251, 91. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Ramkumar, T.R.; Lenka, S.K.; Arya, S.S.; Bansal, K.C.; Arya, S.S.; Bansal, K.C. A short history and perspectives on plantgenetic transformation. In Biolistic DNA Delivery in Plants: Methods and Protocols ; Rustgi, S., Luo, H., Eds.; Springer Nature:Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2020; Volume 2124, pp. 39–68. ISBN 9781071603567.137. Gosal, S.S.; Wani, S.H. Plant genetic transformation and transgenic crops: Methods and applications. In Biotechnologies of CropImprovement, Volume 2: Transgenic Approaches ; Kumar, S., Barone, P ., Smith, M., Eds.; Springer Nature: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany,2018; Volume 2, pp. 1–23. ISBN 9783319906508.138. Soman, J.; Hema, J.; Subramanian, S. Plant Tissue Culture and DNA Delivery Methods. In Advances in Plant Transgenics: Methodsand Applications ; Springer: Singapore, 2019; Chapter 1; pp. 3–22. ISBN 978-981-13-9623-6.139. Kausch, A.P .; Wang, K.; Kaeppler, H.F.; Gordon-Kamm, W. Maize transformation: History, progress, and perspectives. Mol. Breed.2021 ,41, 38. [CrossRef]140. Reed, K.M.; Bargmann, B.O.R. Protoplast regeneration and its use in new plant breeding technologies. Front. Genome Ed. 2021 ,3, 734951. [CrossRef] [PubMed]141. Krenek, P .; Samajova, O.; Luptovciak, I.; Doskocilova, A.; Komis, G.; Samaj, J. Transient plant transformation mediated byAgrobacterium tumefaciens : Principles, methods and applications. Biotechnol. Adv. 2015 ,33, 1024–1042. [CrossRef] [PubMed]142. Van Eck, J. Genome editing and plant transformation of solanaceous food crops. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 2018 ,49, 35–41. [CrossRef][PubMed]143. Guo, M.; Ye, J.; Gao, D.; Xu, N.; Yang, J. Agrobacterium-mediated horizontal gene transfer: Mechanism, biotechnologicalapplication, potential risk and forestalling strategy. Biotechnol. Adv. 2019 ,37, 259–270. [CrossRef] [PubMed]144. Que, Q.; Chilton, M.M.; Elumalai, S.; Zhong, H. Repurposing macromolecule delivery tools for plant engineering. In TransgenicPlants: Methods and Protocols ; Kumar, S., Barone, P ., Smith, M., Eds.; Springer Nature: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; Volume1864, pp. 3–18. ISBN 9781493987788.145. Basso, M.F.; Arraes, F.B.M.; Grossi-de-Sa, M.; Moreira, V .J.V .; Alves-Ferreira, M.; Grossi-de-Sa, M.F. Insights into genetic andmolecular elements for transgenic crop development. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 509. [CrossRef]146. Lacroix, B.; Citovsky, V . Biolistic approach for transient gene expression studies in plants. In Biolistic DNA Delivery in Plants:Methods and Protocols ; Springer Nature: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2020; pp. 125–139.147. Anjanappa, R.B.; Gruissem, W. Current progress and challenges in crop genetic transformation. J. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,261, 153411.[CrossRef]148. Klein, T.M.; Sanford, J.C.; Wolf, E.D.; Wu, R. High-velocity microprojectiles for delivering nucleic acids into living cells. Nature1987 ,327, 70–73. [CrossRef]149. Rustgi, S.; Luo, H. Biolistic DNA Delivery in Plants. In Methods in Molecular Biology , 1st ed.; Rustgi, S., Luo, H., Eds.; Springer:New York, NY, USA, 2020; Volume 2124, ISBN 978-1-0716-0355-0.150. Dong, O.X.; Ronald, P .C. Targeted DNA insertion in plants. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2021 ,118, e2004834117. [CrossRef][PubMed]151. Fuentes, P .; Armarego-Marriott, T.; Bock, R. Plastid transformation and its application in metabolic engineering. Curr. Opin.Biotechnol. 2018 ,49, 10–15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]152. Singh, R.K.; Sharma, L.; Bohra, N.; Anandhan, S.; Ruiz-May, E.; Quiroz-Figueroa, F.R. Recent developments in generation ofmarker-free transgenic plants. In Advances in Plant Transgenics: Methods and Applications ; Springer: Singapore, 2019; pp. 127–142.ISBN 9789811396243.153. Yu, Y.; Yu, P .-C.; Chang, W.-J.; Yu, K.; Lin, C.-S. Plastid Transformation: How does it work? Can it Be Applied to Crops? What Canit Offer? Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 4854. [CrossRef] [PubMed]154. Bock, R. Engineering chloroplasts for high-level constitutive or inducible transgene expression. Methods Mol. Biol. 2021 ,2317 ,77–94.155. Ozyigit, I.I.; Yucebilgili Kurtoglu, K. Particle bombardment technology and its applications in plants. Mol. Biol. Rep. 2020 ,47,9831–9847. [CrossRef] [PubMed]156. Liu, J.; Nannas, N.J.; Fu, F.; Shi, J.; Aspinwall, B.; Parrott, W.A.; Dawe, R.K. Genome-Scale Sequence Disruption Following BiolisticTransformation in Rice and Maize. Plant Cell 2019 ,31, 368–383. [CrossRef]157. Jacob, S.S.; Veluthambi, K. Generation of selection marker-free transgenic plants by cotransformation of a cointegrate vectorT-DNA and a binary vector T-DNA in one Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain. Plant Sci. 2002 ,163, 801–806. [CrossRef]158. Permingeat, H.R.; Alvarez, M.L.; Cervigni, G.D.L.; Ravizzini, R.A.; Vallejos, R.H. Stable wheat transformation obtained withoutselectable markers. Plant Mol. Biol. 2003 ,52, 415–419. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 35 of 50159. Kyndt, T.; Quispe, D.; Zhai, H.; Jarret, R.; Ghislain, M.; Liu, Q.; Gheysen, G.; Kreuze, J.F. The genome of cultivated sweet potatocontains Agrobacterium T-DNAs with expressed genes: An example of a naturally transgenic food crop. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 2015 ,112, 5844–5849. [CrossRef]160. Matveeva, T.V .; Otten, L. Widespread occurrence of natural genetic transformation of plants by Agrobacterium. Plant Mol. Biol.2019 ,101, 415–437. [CrossRef]161. Nogu é, F.; Mara, K.; Collonnier, C.; Casacuberta, J.M. Genome engineering and plant breeding: Impact on trait discovery anddevelopment. Plant Cell Rep. 2016 ,35, 1475–1486. [CrossRef] [PubMed]162. Naegeli, H.; Birch, A.N.; Casacuberta, J.; De Schrijver, A.; Gralak, M.A.; Guerche, P .; Jones, H.; Manachini, B.; Mess éan, A.; Nielsen,E.E.; et al. Guidance on allergenicity assessment of genetically modiﬁed plants. EFSA J. 2017 ,15, e04862. [CrossRef] [PubMed]163. Roberts, R.J. The Nobel Laureates’ Campaign Supporting GMOs. J. Innov. Knowl. 2018 ,3, 61–65. [CrossRef]164. Naegeli, H.; Bresson, J.; Dalmay, T.; Dewhurst, I.C.; Epstein, M.M.; Firbank, L.G.; Guerche, P .; Hejatko, J.; Moreno, F.J.; Nogue, F.;et al. Evaluation of existing guidelines for their adequacy for the molecular characterisation and environmental risk assessmentof genetically modiﬁed plants obtained through synthetic biology. EFSA J. 2021 ,19, e06301. [CrossRef] [PubMed]165. Naegeli, H.; Bresson, J.; Dalmay, T.; Dewhurst, I.C.; Epstein, M.M.; Firbank, L.G.; Guerche, P .; Hejatko, J.; Moreno, F.J.; Mullins, E.;et al. Statement on in vitro protein digestibility tests in allergenicity and protein safety assessment of genetically modiﬁed plants.EFSA J. 2021 ,19, e06350. [CrossRef] [PubMed]166. Holme, I.B.; Wendt, T.; Holm, P .B. Intragenesis and Cisgenesis as Alternatives to Transgenic Crop Development. Plant Biotechnol. J.2013 ,11, 395–407. [CrossRef]167. Gibson, D.G.; Young, L.; Chuang, R.-Y.; Venter, J.C.; Hutchison, C.A.; Smith, H.O. Enzymatic assembly of DNA molecules up toseveral hundred kilobases. Nat. Methods 2009 ,6, 343–345. [CrossRef]168. Engler, C.; Kandzia, R.; Marillonnet, S. A One Pot, One Step, Precision Cloning Method with High Throughput Capability. PLoSONE 2008 ,3, e3647. [CrossRef]169. Sarrion-Perdigones, A.; Falconi, E.E.; Zandalinas, S.I.; Ju árez, P .; Fern ández-del-Carmen, A.; Granell, A.; Orzaez, D. GoldenBraid:An Iterative Cloning System for Standardized Assembly of Reusable Genetic Modules. PLoS ONE 2011 ,6, e21622. [CrossRef]170. Sarrion-Perdigones, A.; Vazquez-Vilar, M.; Palaci, J.; Castelijns, B.; Forment, J.; Ziarsolo, P .; Blanca, J.; Granell, A.; Orzaez, D.GoldenBraid 2.0: A Comprehensive DNA Assembly Framework for Plant Synthetic Biology. Plant Physiol. 2013 ,162, 1618–1631.[CrossRef]171. Gelvin, S.B. Agrobacterium-Mediated plant transformation: The Biology behind the “Gene-Jockeying” tool. Microbiol. Mol. Biol.Rev. 2003 ,67, 16–37. [CrossRef] [PubMed]172. Hwang, H.-H.; Yu, M.; Lai, E.-M. Agrobacterium-Mediated plant transformation: Biology and applications. Arab. Book 2017 ,15, e0186.[CrossRef] [PubMed]173. Bevan, M.W.; Flavell, R.B.; Chilton, M.-D. A chimaeric antibiotic resistance gene as a selectable marker for plant cell transformation.Nature 1983 ,304, 184–187. [CrossRef]174. Fraley, R.T.; Rogers, S.G.; Horsch, R.B.; Sanders, P .R.; Flick, J.S.; Adams, S.P .; Bittner, M.L.; Brand, L.A.; Fink, C.L.; Fry, J.S.; et al.Expression of bacterial genes in plant cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1983 ,80, 4803–4807. [CrossRef] [PubMed]175. Herrera-Estrella, L.; Depicker, A.; Van Montagu, M.; Schell, J. Expression of chimaeric genes transferred into plant cells usinga Ti-plasmid-derived vector. Nature 1983 ,303, 209–213. [CrossRef]176. Hoekema, A.; Hirsch, P .R.; Hooykaas, P .J.J.; Schilperoort, R.A. A binary plant vector strategy based on separation of vir- andT-region of the Agrobacterium tumefaciens Ti-plasmid. Nature 1983 ,303, 179–180. [CrossRef]177. Bevan, M. Binary Agrobacterium vectors for plant transformation. Nucleic Acids Res. 1984 ,12, 8711–8721. [CrossRef]178. Wang, X.; Chang, S.; Lu, J.; Fray, R.; Grierson, D.; Han, Y. Plant genetic engineering and genetically modiﬁed crop breeding:History and current status. Front. Agric. Sci. Eng. 2017 ,4, 5–27. [CrossRef]179. Anami, S.; Njuguna, E.; Coussens, G.; Aesaert, S.; Lijsebettens, M. Van Higher plant transformation: Principles and moleculartools. Int. J. Dev. Biol. 2013 ,57, 483–494. [CrossRef]180. Elshire, R.J.; Glaubitz, J.C.; Sun, Q.; Poland, J.A.; Kawamoto, K.; Buckler, E.S.; Mitchell, S.E. A robust, simple Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS) approach for high diversity species. PLoS ONE 2011 ,6, e19379. [CrossRef]181. Yu, J.-K. Advanced Breeding Technologies for Accelerating Genetic Gain. Plant Breed. Biotechnol. 2020 ,8, 203–210. [CrossRef]182. He, J.; Zhao, X.; Laroche, A.; Lu, Z.-X.; Liu, H.; Li, Z. Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS), an ultimate marker-assisted selection(MAS) tool to accelerate plant breeding. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 484. [CrossRef] [PubMed]183. Peterson, G.; Dong, Y.; Horbach, C.; Fu, Y.-B. Genotyping-By-Sequencing for plant genetic diversity analysis: A lab guide for SNPGenotyping. Diversity 2014 ,6, 665–680. [CrossRef]184. Sonah, H.; O’Donoughue, L.; Cober, E.; Rajcan, I.; Belzile, F. Identiﬁcation of loci governing eight agronomic traits usinga GBS-GWAS approach and validation by QTL mapping in soya bean. Plant Biotechnol. J. 2015 ,13, 211–221. [CrossRef] [PubMed]185. Andrews, K.R.; Good, J.M.; Miller, M.R.; Luikart, G.; Hohenlohe, P .A. Harnessing the power of RADseq for ecological andevolutionary genomics. Nat. Rev. Genet. 2016 ,17, 81–92. [CrossRef]186. Wu, X.; Blair, M.W. Diversity in grain amaranths and relatives distinguished by Genotyping by Sequencing (GBS). Front. Plant Sci.2017 ,8, 1960. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 36 of 50187. Carbonell, P .; Alonso, A.; Grau, A.; Salinas, J.; Garc ía-Mart ínez, S.; Ruiz, J. Twenty years of tomato breeding at EPSO-UMH:Transfer resistance from wild types to local landraces—From the ﬁrst molecular markers to genotyping by sequencing (GBS).Diversity 2018 ,10, 12. [CrossRef]188. Challa, S.; Neelapu, N.R.R. Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) for abiotic stress tolerance in plants. In Biochemical,Physiological and Molecular Avenues for Combating Abiotic Stress Tolerance in Plants ; Wani, S.H., Ed.; Elsevier: London, UK, 2018;pp. 135–150. ISBN 9780128130667.189. Edet, O.U.; Goraﬁ, Y.S.A.; Nasuda, S.; Tsujimoto, H. DArTseq-based analysis of genomic relationships among species of tribeTriticeae. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 16397. [CrossRef]190. Nwosisi, S.; Dhakal, K.; Nandwani, D.; Raji, J.I.; Krishnan, S.; Beovides-Garc ía, Y. Genetic diversity in vegetable and fruit crops.InGenetic Diversity in Horticultural Plants ; Nandwani, D., Ed.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2019;pp. 87–125. ISBN 9783319964546.191. Allan, V .; Vetriventhan, M.; Senthil, R.; Geetha, S.; Deshpande, S.; Rathore, A.; Kumar, V .; Singh, P .; Reddymalla, S.; Azevedo,V .C.R. Genome-Wide DArTSeq genotyping and phenotypic based assessment of within and among accessions diversity andeffective sample size in the diverse sorghum, pearl millet, and pigeonpea landraces. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 587426. [CrossRef]192. Gahlaut, V .; Zinta, G.; Jaiswal, V .; Kumar, S. Quantitative Epigenetics: A new avenue for crop improvement. Epigenomes 2020 ,4, 25.[CrossRef]193. Kulkarni, K.P .; Vorsa, N.; Natarajan, P .; Elavarthi, S.; Iorizzo, M.; Reddy, U.K.; Melmaiee, K. Admixture analysis using genotyping-by-sequencing reveals genetic relatedness and parental lineage distribution in highbush blueberry genotypes and cross derivatives.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,22, 163. [CrossRef] [PubMed]194. Brandt, K.M.; Chen, X.; Tabima, J.F.; See, D.R.; Vining, K.J.; Zemetra, R.S. QTL analysis of adult plant resistance to stripe rust ina winter wheat recombinant inbred population. Plants 2021 ,10, 572. [CrossRef] [PubMed]195. Contreras-Soto, R.; Salvatierra, A.; Maldonado, C.; Mashilo, J. The genetic diversity and population structure of different geographicalpopulations of bottle gourd ( Lagenaria siceraria ) accessions based on genotyping-by-sequencing. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 1677. [CrossRef]196. Hyun, D.Y.; Sebastin, R.; Lee, G.-A.; Lee, K.J.; Kim, S.-H.; Yoo, E.; Lee, S.; Kang, M.-J.; Lee, S.B.; Jang, I.; et al. Genome-Wide SNPmarkers for genotypic and phenotypic differentiation of melon ( Cucumis melo L.) varieties using genotyping-by-sequencing. Int. J.Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 6722. [CrossRef]197. Ryu, J.; Lyu, J.I.; Kim, D.-G.; Koo, K.M.; Yang, B.; Jo, Y.D.; Kim, S.H.; Kwon, S.-J.; Ha, B.-K.; Kang, S.-Y.; et al. Single NucleotidePolymorphism (SNP) discovery and association study of ﬂowering times, crude fat and fatty acid composition in rapeseed(Brassica napus L.) mutant lines using Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS). Agronomy 2021 ,11, 508. [CrossRef]198. Nadeem, M.A.; Guizado, S.J.V .; Shahid, M.Q.; Nawaz, M.A.; Habyarimana, E.; Erci¸ sli, S.; Ali, F.; Karaköy, T.; Aasim, M.; Hatipo˘ glu,R.; et al. In-Depth genetic diversity and population structure of endangered peruvian amazon rosewood germplasm usingGenotyping by Sequencing (GBS) technology. Forests 2021 ,12, 197. [CrossRef]199. Naeem, M.; Demirel, U.; Yousaf, M.F.; Caliskan, S.; Caliskan, M.E. Overview on domestication, breeding, genetic gain andimprovement of tuber quality traits of potato using fast forwarding technique (GWAS): A review. Plant Breed. 2021 ,140, 519–542.[CrossRef]200. Nankar, A.N.; Pratt, R.C. Genotyping by sequencing reveals genetic relatedness of Southwestern U.S. Blue Maize Landraces. Int.J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 3436. [CrossRef]201. Zenda, T.; Liu, S.; Dong, A.; Duan, H.; Kumar, J.; Rai, M.; Verma, P .C. Advances in cereal crop genomics for resilience underclimate change. Life2021 ,11, 502. [CrossRef]202. Zuluaga, D.L.; Lioi, L.; Delvento, C.; Pavan, S.; Sonnante, G. Genotyping-by-Sequencing in Vigna unguiculata Landraces and itsutility for assessing taxonomic relationships. Plants 2021 ,10, 509. [CrossRef]203. De Donato, M.; Peters, S.O.; Mitchell, S.E.; Hussain, T.; Imumorin, I.G. Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS): A novel, efﬁcient andcost-effective genotyping method for cattle using Next-Generation Sequencing. PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e62137. [CrossRef] [PubMed]204. Sahu, P .K.; Sao, R.; Mondal, S.; Vishwakarma, G.; Gupta, S.K.; Kumar, V .; Singh, S.; Sharma, D.; Das, B.K. Next GenerationSequencing based forward genetic approaches for identiﬁcation and mapping of causal mutations in crop plants: A comprehensivereview. Plants 2020 ,9, 1355. [CrossRef] [PubMed]205. Danilevicz, M.F.; Tay Fernandez, C.G.; Marsh, J.I.; Bayer, P .E.; Edwards, D. Plant pangenomics: Approaches, applications andadvancements. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 2020 ,54, 18–25. [CrossRef]206. Sherman, R.M.; Salzberg, S.L. Pan-genomics in the human genome era. Nat. Rev. Genet. 2020 ,21, 243–254. [CrossRef]207. Lei, L.; Goltsman, E.; Goodstein, D.; Wu, G.A.; Rokhsar, D.S.; Vogel, J.P . Plant Pan-Genomics comes of age. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol.2021 ,72, 411–435. [CrossRef]208. Petereit, J.; Bayer, P .E.; Thomas, W.J.W.; Tay Fernandez, C.G.; Amas, J.; Zhang, Y.; Batley, J.; Edwards, D. Pangenomics and CropGenome Adaptation in a Changing Climate. Plants 2022 ,11, 1949. [CrossRef]209. Khan, A.W.; Garg, V .; Roorkiwal, M.; Golicz, A.A.; Edwards, D.; Varshney, R.K. Super-Pangenome by Integrating the Wild Side ofa Species for Accelerated Crop Improvement. Trends Plant Sci. 2020 ,25, 148–158. [CrossRef] [PubMed]210. Shah, T.; Xu, J.; Zou, X.; Cheng, Y.; Nasir, M.; Zhang, X. Omics approaches for engineering wheat production under abioticstresses. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 2390. [CrossRef]211. Della Coletta, R.; Qiu, Y.; Ou, S.; Hufford, M.B.; Hirsch, C.N. How the pan-genome is changing crop genomics and improvement.Genome Biol. 2021 ,22, 3. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 37 of 50212. Huang, C.; Chen, Z.; Liang, C. Oryza pan-genomics: A new foundation for future rice research and improvement. Crop J. 2021 ,9,622–632. [CrossRef]213. Razzaq, M.K.; Aleem, M.; Mansoor, S.; Khan, M.A.; Rauf, S.; Iqbal, S.; Siddique, K.H.M. Omics and crispr-cas9 approaches formolecular insight, functional gene analysis, and stress tolerance development in crops. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 1292. [CrossRef][PubMed]214. Ruperao, P .; Thirunavukkarasu, N.; Gandham, P .; Selvanayagam, S.; Govindaraj, M.; Nebie, B.; Manyasa, E.; Gupta, R.; Das, R.R.;Odeny, D.A.; et al. Sorghum pan-genome explores the functional utility for genomic-assisted breeding to accelerate the geneticgain. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 666342. [CrossRef] [PubMed]215. Li, W.; Liu, J.; Zhang, H.; Liu, Z.; Wang, Y.; Xing, L.; He, Q.; Du, H. Plant pan-genomics: Recent advances, new challenges, androads ahead. J. Genet. Genom. 2022 ,49, 833–846. [CrossRef] [PubMed]216. Kong, W.; Jiang, M.; Wang, Y.; Chen, S.; Zhang, S.; Lei, W.; Chai, K.; Wang, P .; Liu, R.; Zhang, X. Pan-transcriptome assemblycombined with multiple association analysis provides new insights into the regulatory network of specialized metabolites in thetea plant Camellia sinensis. Hortic. Res. 2022 ,9, uhac100. [CrossRef] [PubMed]217. Woldegiorgis, S.T.; Wu, T.; Gao, L.; Huang, Y.; Zheng, Y.; Qiu, F.; Xu, S.; Tao, H.; Harrison, A.; Liu, W.; et al. Identiﬁcation ofheat-tolerant genes in non-reference sequences in rice by integrating pan-genome, transcriptomics, and QTLs. Genes 2022 ,13,1353. [CrossRef]218. Arbona, V .; Manzi, M.; de Ollas, C.; G ómez-Cadenas, A. Metabolomics as a tool to investigate abiotic stress tolerance in plants.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2013 ,14, 4885–4911. [CrossRef]219. Bashir, K.; Matsui, A.; Rasheed, S.; Seki, M. Recent advances in the characterization of plant transcriptomes in response to drought,salinity, heat, and cold stress. F1000Research 2019 ,8, 658. [CrossRef]220. Charoensawan, V .; Cortijo, S.; Domijan, M.; Negr ão, S. Editorial: Multi-Disciplinary Approaches to Plant Responses to ClimateChange. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 544–563. [CrossRef]221. Danilevicz, M.F.; Bayer, P .E.; Nestor, B.J.; Bennamoun, M.; Edwards, D. Resources for image-based high-throughput phenotypingin crops and data sharing challenges. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,187, 699–715. [CrossRef]222. Marsh, J.I.; Hu, H.; Gill, M.; Batley, J.; Edwards, D. Crop breeding for a changing climate: Integrating phenomics and genomicswith bioinformatics. Theor. Appl. Genet. 2021 ,134, 1677–1690. [CrossRef]223. Raza, A.; Razzaq, A.; Mehmood, S.S.; Hussain, M.A.; Wei, S.; He, H.; Zaman, Q.U.; Xuekun, Z.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Omics: Theway forward to enhance abiotic stress tolerance in Brassica napus L.GM Crop. Food 2021 ,12, 251–281. [CrossRef] [PubMed]224. Singh, R.K.; Sood, P .; Prasad, A.; Prasad, M. Advances in omics technology for improving crop yield and stress resilience. PlantBreed. 2021 ,140, 719–731. [CrossRef]225. Yang, Y.; Saand, M.A.; Huang, L.; Abdelaal, W.B.; Zhang, J.; Wu, Y.; Li, J.; Sirohi, M.H.; Wang, F. Applications of Multi-OmicsTechnologies for Crop Improvement. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 563953. [CrossRef]226. Zenda, T.; Liu, S.; Dong, A.; Li, J.; Wang, Y.; Liu, X.; Wang, N.; Duan, H. Omics-Facilitated Crop Improvement for ClimateResilience and Superior Nutritive Value. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 774994. [CrossRef]227. Ashraf, M.F.; Hou, D.; Hussain, Q.; Imran, M.; Pei, J.; Ali, M.; Shehzad, A.; Anwar, M.; Noman, A.; Waseem, M.; et al. Entailingthe Next-Generation Sequencing and Metabolome for Sustainable Agriculture by Improving Plant Tolerance. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 651. [CrossRef] [PubMed]228. Javaid, M.H.; Khan, A.R.; Salam, A.; Neelam, A.; Azhar, W.; Ulhassan, Z.; Gan, Y. Exploring the Adaptive Responses of Plants toAbiotic Stresses Using Transcriptome Data. Agriculture 2022 ,12, 211. [CrossRef]229. Ninomiya, S. High-throughput ﬁeld crop phenotyping: Current status and challenges. Breed. Sci. 2022 ,72, 21069. [CrossRef][PubMed]230. Rahman, S.U.; Nawaz, M.F.; Gul, S.; Yasin, G.; Hussain, B.; Li, Y.; Cheng, H. State-of-the-art OMICS strategies against toxic effectsof heavy metals in plants: A review. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2022 ,242, 113952. [CrossRef]231. Shen, Y.; Zhou, G.; Liang, C.; Tian, Z. Omics-based interdisciplinarity is accelerating plant breeding. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 2022 ,66, 102167. [CrossRef]232. Taheri, S.; Gantait, S.; Azizi, P .; Mazumdar, P . Drought tolerance improvement in Solanum lycopersicum: An insight into “OMICS”approaches and genome editing. 3 Biotech 2022 ,12, 63. [CrossRef]233. Zhou, R.; Jiang, F.; Niu, L.; Song, X.; Yu, L.; Yang, Y.; Wu, Z. Increase Crop Resilience to Heat Stress Using Omic Strategies. Front.Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 891861. [CrossRef] [PubMed]234. Zhou, X.; Liu, Z. Unlocking plant metabolic diversity: A (pan)-genomic view. Plant Commun. 2022 ,3, 100300. [CrossRef][PubMed]235. Pazhamala, L.T.; Kudapa, H.; Weckwerth, W.; Millar, A.H.; Varshney, R.K. Systems biology for crop improvement. Plant Genome2021 ,14, e20098. [CrossRef] [PubMed]236. Anonymous. Method of the Year 2011. Nat. Methods 2012 ,9, 1. [CrossRef] [PubMed]237. Anonymous. The Runners-Up. Science 2012 ,338, 1525–1532. [CrossRef]238. Porteus, M.H. Zinc ﬁngers on target. Nature 2009 ,459, 337–338. [CrossRef]239. Shukla, V .K.; Doyon, Y.; Miller, J.C.; DeKelver, R.C.; Moehle, E.A.; Worden, S.E.; Mitchell, J.C.; Arnold, N.L.; Gopalan, S.; Meng, X.;et al. Precise genome modiﬁcation in the crop species Zea mays using zinc-ﬁnger nucleases. Nature 2009 ,459, 437–441. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 38 of 50240. Townsend, J.A.; Wright, D.A.; Winfrey, R.J.; Fu, F.; Maeder, M.L.; Joung, J.K.; Voytas, D.F. High-frequency modiﬁcation of plantgenes using engineered zinc-ﬁnger nucleases. Nature 2009 ,459, 442–445. [CrossRef]241. Davies, J.P .; Kumar, S.; Sastry-Dent, L. Use of Zinc-Finger Nucleases for crop improvement. In Progress in Molecular Biology andTranslational Science ; Elsevier Inc.: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2017; Volume 149, pp. 47–63.242. Beerli, R.R.; Segal, D.J.; Dreier, B.; Barbas, C.F. Toward controlling gene expression at will: Speciﬁc regulation of the erbB-2/HER-2promoter by using polydactyl zinc ﬁnger proteins constructed from modular building blocks. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1998 ,95,14628–14633. [CrossRef]243. Beerli, R.R.; Dreier, B.; Barbas, C.F. Positive and negative regulation of endogenous genes by designed transcription factors. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2000 ,97, 1495–1500. [CrossRef]244. Papworth, M.; Kolasinska, P .; Minczuk, M. Designer zinc-ﬁnger proteins and their applications. Gene 2006 ,366, 27–38. [CrossRef][PubMed]245. Sprink, T.; Metje, J.; Hartung, F. Plant genome editing by novel tools: TALEN and other sequence speciﬁc nucleases. Curr. Opin.Biotechnol. 2015 ,32, 47–53. [CrossRef] [PubMed]246. Kim, H.J.; Lee, H.J.; Kim, H.; Cho, S.W.; Kim, J.-S. Targeted genome editing in human cells with zinc ﬁnger nucleases constructedvia modular assembly. Genome Res. 2009 ,19, 1279–1288. [CrossRef]247. Saha, S.K.; Saikot, F.K.; Rahman, M.S.; Jamal, M.A.H.M.; Rahman, S.M.K.; Islam, S.M.R.; Kim, K.-H. Programmable molecularscissors: Applications of a new tool for genome editing in biotech. Mol. Ther.-Nucleic Acids 2019 ,14, 212–238. [CrossRef] [PubMed]248. Jinek, M.; Chylinski, K.; Fonfara, I.; Hauer, M.; Doudna, J.A.; Charpentier, E. A programmable dual-RNA–Guided DNAendonuclease in adaptive bacterial immunity. Science 2012 ,337, 816–821. [CrossRef] [PubMed]249. Zetsche, B.; Gootenberg, J.S.; Abudayyeh, O.O.; Slaymaker, I.M.; Makarova, K.S.; Essletzbichler, P .; Volz, S.E.; Joung, J.; van derOost, J.; Regev, A.; et al. Cpf1 is a single rna-guided endonuclease of a Class 2 CRISPR-Cas system. Cell 2015 ,163, 759–771.[CrossRef]250. Miglani, G.S.; Kaur, A.; Kaur, L. Plant gene expression control using genome- and epigenome-editing technologies. J. Crop Improv.2020 ,34, 1–63. [CrossRef]251. Qasim, W.; Zhan, H.; Samarasinghe, S.; Adams, S.; Amrolia, P .; Stafford, S.; Butler, K.; Rivat, C.; Wright, G.; Somana, K.; et al.Molecular remission of infant B-ALL after infusion of universal TALEN gene-edited CAR T cells. Sci. T ransl. Med. 2017 ,9, eaaj2013.[CrossRef]252. Menz, J.; Modrzejewski, D.; Hartung, F.; Wilhelm, R.; Sprink, T. Genome edited crops touch the market: A view on the globaldevelopment and regulatory environment. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 1525. [CrossRef]253. Bogdanove, A.J.; Voytas, D.F. TAL Effectors: Customizable proteins for DNA targeting. Science 2011 ,333, 1843–1846. [CrossRef]254. Mahfouz, M.M.; Piatek, A.; Stewart, C.N. Genome engineering via TALENs and CRISPR/Cas9 systems: Challenges andperspectives. Plant Biotechnol. J. 2014 ,12, 1006–1014. [CrossRef] [PubMed]255. Becker, S.; Boch, J. TALE and TALEN genome editing technologies. Gene Genome Ed. 2021 ,2, 100007. [CrossRef]256. Boch, J.; Scholze, H.; Schornack, S.; Landgraf, A.; Hahn, S.; Kay, S.; Lahaye, T.; Nickstadt, A.; Bonas, U. Breaking the Code of DNABinding Speciﬁcity of TAL-Type III Effectors. Science 2009 ,326, 1509–1512. [CrossRef] [PubMed]257. Boch, J.; Bonas, U. Xanthomonas AvrBs3 Family-Type III Effectors: Discovery and function. Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 2010 ,48,419–436. [CrossRef] [PubMed]258. Kay, S.; Hahn, S.; Marois, E.; Hause, G.; Bonas, U. A bacterial effector acts as a plant transcription factor and induces a cell sizeregulator. Science 2007 ,318, 648–651. [CrossRef] [PubMed]259. Schornack, S.; Moscou, M.J.; Ward, E.R.; Horvath, D.M. Engineering plant disease resistance based on TAL effectors. Annu. Rev.Phytopathol. 2013 ,51, 383–406. [CrossRef] [PubMed]260. Deng, D.; Yan, C.; Pan, X.; Mahfouz, M.; Wang, J.; Zhu, J.-K.; Shi, Y.; Yan, N. Structural basis for sequence-speciﬁc recognition ofDNA by TAL effectors. Science 2012 ,335, 720–723. [CrossRef]261. Doyle, E.L.; Stoddard, B.L.; Voytas, D.F.; Bogdanove, A.J. TAL effectors: Highly adaptable phytobacterial virulence factors andreadily engineered DNA-targeting proteins. Trends Cell Biol. 2013 ,23, 390–398. [CrossRef]262. Shah, T.; Andleeb, T.; Lateef, S.; Noor, M.A. Genome editing in plants: Advancing crop transformation and overview of tools.Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2018 ,131, 12–21. [CrossRef]263. Sedeek, K.E.M.; Mahas, A.; Mahfouz, M. Plant genome engineering for targeted improvement of crop traits. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 114. [CrossRef]264. Christian, M.; Cermak, T.; Doyle, E.L.; Schmidt, C.; Zhang, F.; Hummel, A.; Bogdanove, A.J.; Voytas, D.F. Targeting DNAdouble-strand breaks with TAL effector nucleases. Genetics 2010 ,186, 756–761. [CrossRef] [PubMed]265. Mahfouz, M.M.; Li, L.; Shamimuzzaman, M.; Wibowo, A.; Fang, X.; Zhu, J.K. De novo-engineered transcription activator-likeeffector (TALE) hybrid nuclease with novel DNA binding speciﬁcity creates double-strand breaks. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA2011 ,108, 2623–2628. [CrossRef] [PubMed]266. Miller, J.C.; Tan, S.; Qiao, G.; Barlow, K.A.; Wang, J.; Xia, D.F.; Meng, X.; Paschon, D.E.; Leung, E.; Hinkley, S.J.; et al. A TALEnuclease architecture for efﬁcient genome editing. Nat. Biotechnol. 2011 ,29, 143–150. [CrossRef] [PubMed]267. Li, T.; Huang, S.; Jiang, W.Z.; Wright, D.; Spalding, M.H.; Weeks, D.P .; Yang, B. TAL nucleases (TALNs): Hybrid proteins composedof TAL effectors and FokI DNA-cleavage domain. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011 ,39, 359–372. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 39 of 50268. Bhardwaj, A.; Nain, V . TALENs—An indispensable tool in the era of CRISPR: A mini review. J. Genet. Eng. Biotechnol. 2021 ,19, 125.[CrossRef]269. Chen, K.; Gao, C. TALENs: Customizable molecular DNA scissors for genome engineering of plants. J. Genet. Genom. 2013 ,40,271–279. [CrossRef]270. Wang, Y.; Cheng, X.; Shan, Q.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, J.; Gao, C.; Qiu, J.-L. Simultaneous editing of three homoeoalleles in hexaploidbread wheat confers heritable resistance to powdery mildew. Nat. Biotechnol. 2014 ,32, 947–951. [CrossRef]271. Abdelrahman, M.; Wei, Z.; Rohila, J.S.; Zhao, K. Multiplex Genome-Editing technologies for revolutionizing plant biology andcrop improvement. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 721203. [CrossRef]272. Li, D.; Tang, N.; Fang, Z.; Xia, Y.; Cao, M. Co-Transfer of TALENs Construct Targeted for Chloroplast Genome and ChloroplastTransformation Vector Into Rice Using Particle Bombardment. J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol. 2016 ,16, 12194–12201. [CrossRef]273. Kazama, T.; Okuno, M.; Watari, Y.; Yanase, S.; Koizuka, C.; Tsuruta, Y.; Sugaya, H.; Toyoda, A.; Itoh, T.; Tsutsumi, N.; et al. Curingcytoplasmic male sterility via TALEN-mediated mitochondrial genome editing. Nat. Plants 2019 ,5, 722–730. [CrossRef]274. Huang, C.-H.; Liu, Y .-C.; Shen, J.-Y .; Lu, F.-I.; Shaw, S.-Y .; Huang, H.-J.; Chang, C.-C. Repairing TALEN-mediated double-strand breakby microhomology-mediated recombination in tobacco plastids generates abundant subgenomic DNA. Plant Sci. 2021 ,313, 111028.[CrossRef] [PubMed]275. Rascón-Cruz, Q.; Gonz ález-Barriga, C.D.; Iglesias-Figueroa, B.F.; Trejo-Muñoz, J.C.; Siqueiros-Cend ón, T.; Sinagawa-Garc ía,S.R.; Ar évalo-Gallegos, S.; Espinoza-S ánchez, E.A. Plastid transformation: Advances and challenges for its implementation inagricultural crops. Electron. J. Biotechnol. 2021 ,51, 95–109. [CrossRef]276. Arimura, S. MitoTALENs: A method for targeted gene disruption in plant mitochondrial genomes. In Plant Mitochondria ;Van Aken, O., Rasmusson, A.G., Eds.; Springer Science & Business Media: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2022; Volume 2363,pp. 335–340. ISBN 978-1-0716-1653-6.277. Khan, S.H. Genome-Editing Technologies: Concept, Pros, and Cons of various genome-editing techniques and bioethical concernsfor clinical application. Mol. Ther.-Nucleic Acids 2019 ,16, 326–334. [CrossRef] [PubMed]278. Di Blasi, R.; Zouein, A.; Ellis, T.; Ceroni, F. Genetic toolkits to design and build mammalian synthetic systems. Trends Biotechnol.2021 ,39, 1004–1018. [CrossRef] [PubMed]279. Cermak, T.; Doyle, E.L.; Christian, M.; Wang, L.; Zhang, Y.; Schmidt, C.; Baller, J.A.; Somia, N.V .; Bogdanove, A.J.; Voytas, D.F.Efﬁcient design and assembly of custom TALEN and other TAL effector-based constructs for DNA targeting. Nucleic Acids Res.2011 ,39, e82. [CrossRef] [PubMed]280. Schmid-Burgk, J.L.; Schmidt, T.; Kaiser, V .; Höning, K.; Hornung, V . A ligation-independent cloning technique for high-throughputassembly of transcription activator–like effector genes. Nat. Biotechnol. 2013 ,31, 76–81. [CrossRef]281. Bogdanove, A.J.; Booher, N.J. Online Tools for TALEN Design. In Methods in Molecular Biology ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,Germany, 2016; Volume 1338, pp. 43–47.282. Gogolok, S.; Garcia-Diaz, C.; Pollard, S.M. STAR: A simple TAL effector assembly reaction using isothermal assembly OPEN. Sci.Rep. 2016 ,6, 33209. [CrossRef]283. Ma, A.C.; Mcnulty, M.S.; Poshusta, T.L.; Campbell, J.M.; Mart ínez-G álvez, G.; Argue, D.P .; Lee, H.B.; Urban, M.D.; Bullard, C.E.;Blackburn, P .R.; et al. FusX: A rapid one-step transcription activator-like effector assembly system for genome science. Hum. GeneTher. 2016 ,27, 451–463. [CrossRef]284. Khan, Z.; Khan, S.H.; Mubarik, M.S.; Sadia, B.; Ahmad, A. Use of TALEs and TALEN technology for genetic improvement ofplants. Plant Mol. Biol. Report. 2017 ,35, 1–19. [CrossRef]285. Ishino, Y.; Shinagawa, H.; Makino, K.; Amemura, M.; Nakata, A. Nucleotide sequence of the iap gene, responsible for alkalinephosphatase isozyme conversion in Escherichia coli , and identiﬁcation of the gene product. J. Bacteriol. 1987 ,169, 5429–5433.[CrossRef]286. Cong, L.; Ran, F.A.; Cox, D.; Lin, S.; Barretto, R.; Habib, N.; Hsu, P .D.; Wu, X.; Jiang, W.; Marrafﬁni, L.A.; et al. Multiplex genomeengineering using CRISPR/Cas systems. Science 2013 ,339, 819–823. [CrossRef] [PubMed]287. Jinek, M.; East, A.; Cheng, A.; Lin, S.; Ma, E.; Doudna, J. RNA-programmed genome editing in human cells. Elife 2013 ,2, e00471.[CrossRef] [PubMed]288. Mali, P .; Yang, L.; Esvelt, K.M.; Aach, J.; Guell, M.; DiCarlo, J.E.; Norville, J.E.; Church, G.M. RNA-Guided human genomeengineering via Cas9. Science 2013 ,339, 823–826. [CrossRef] [PubMed]289. Li, W.; Teng, F.; Li, T.; Zhou, Q. Simultaneous generation and germline transmission of multiple gene mutations in rat usingCRISPR-Cas systems. Nat. Biotechnol. 2013 ,31, 684–686. [CrossRef]290. Belhaj, K.; Chaparro-Garcia, A.; Kamoun, S.; Nekrasov, V . Plant genome editing made easy: Targeted mutagenesis in model andcrop plants using the CRISPR/Cas system. Plant Methods 2013 ,9, 39. [CrossRef] [PubMed]291. Feng, Z.; Zhang, B.; Ding, W.; Liu, X.; Yang, D.-L.; Wei, P .; Cao, F.; Zhu, S.; Zhang, F.; Mao, Y.; et al. Efﬁcient genome editing inplants using a CRISPR/Cas system. Cell Res. 2013 ,23, 1229–1232. [CrossRef] [PubMed]292. Jiang, W.; Zhou, H.; Bi, H.; Fromm, M.; Yang, B.; Weeks, D.P . Demonstration of CRISPR/Cas9/sgRNA-mediated targeted genemodiﬁcation in Arabidopsis, tobacco, sorghum and rice. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 ,41, e188. [CrossRef] [PubMed]293. Li, J.-F.; Norville, J.E.; Aach, J.; McCormack, M.; Zhang, D.; Bush, J.; Church, G.M.; Sheen, J. Multiplex and homologousrecombination–mediated genome editing in Arabidopsis and Nicotiana benthamiana using guide RNA and Cas9. Nat. Biotechnol.2013 ,31, 688–691. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 40 of 50294. Mao, Y.; Zhang, H.; Xu, N.; Zhang, B.; Gou, F.; Zhu, J.-K. Application of the CRISPR–Cas system for efﬁcient genome engineeringin plants. Mol. Plant 2013 ,6, 2008–2011. [CrossRef]295. Miao, J.; Guo, D.; Zhang, J.; Huang, Q.; Qin, G.; Zhang, X.; Wan, J.; Gu, H.; Qu, L.-J. Targeted mutagenesis in rice usingCRISPR-Cas system. Cell Res. 2013 ,23, 1233–1236. [CrossRef]296. Shan, Q.; Wang, Y.; Li, J.; Zhang, Y.; Chen, K.; Liang, Z.; Zhang, K.; Liu, J.; Xi, J.J.; Qiu, J.-L.; et al. Targeted genome modiﬁcation ofcrop plants using a CRISPR-Cas system. Nat. Biotechnol. 2013 ,31, 686–688. [CrossRef] [PubMed]297. Xie, K.; Yang, Y. RNA-Guided genome editing in plants using a CRISPR–Cas system. Mol. Plant 2013 ,6, 1975–1983. [CrossRef][PubMed]298. Wright, A.V .; Nuñez, J.K.; Doudna, J.A. Biology and applications of CRISPR systems: Harnessing Nature’s toolbox for genomeengineering. Cell2016 ,164, 29–44. [CrossRef] [PubMed]299. Hille, F.; Richter, H.; Wong, S.P .; Bratoviˇ c, M.; Ressel, S.; Charpentier, E. The Biology of CRISPR-Cas: Backward and Forward. Cell2018 ,172, 1239–1259. [CrossRef]300. Chennakesavulu, K.; Singh, H.; Trivedi, P .K.; Jain, M.; Yadav, S.R. State-of-the-Art in CRISPR technology and engineering drought,salinity, and thermo-tolerant crop plants. Plant Cell Rep. 2021 ,1, 3. [CrossRef]301. Chylinski, K.; Le Rhun, A.; Charpentier, E. The tracrRNA and Cas9 families of type II CRISPR-Cas immunity systems. RNA Biol.2013 ,10, 726–737. [CrossRef]302. Makarova, K.S.; Wolf, Y.I.; Alkhnbashi, O.S.; Costa, F.; Shah, S.A.; Saunders, S.J.; Barrangou, R.; Brouns, S.J.J.; Charpentier, E.; Haft,D.H.; et al. An updated evolutionary classiﬁcation of CRISPR–Cas systems. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2015 ,13, 722–736. [CrossRef]303. Makarova, K.S.; Koonin, E.V . Annotation and classiﬁcation of CRISPR-Cas systems. In Methods in Molecular Biology ; Springer:Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2015; Volume 1311, pp. 47–75.304. Shmakov, S.; Smargon, A.; Scott, D.; Cox, D.; Pyzocha, N.; Yan, W.; Abudayyeh, O.O.; Gootenberg, J.S.; Makarova, K.S.; Wolf, Y.I.;et al. Diversity and evolution of class 2 CRISPR–Cas systems. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2017 ,15, 169–182. [CrossRef]305. Koonin, E.V .; Makarova, K.S.; Zhang, F. Diversity, classiﬁcation and evolution of CRISPR-Cas systems. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2017 ,37, 67–78. [CrossRef]306. Aman, R.; Ali, Z.; Butt, H.; Mahas, A.; Aljedaani, F.; Khan, M.Z.; Ding, S.; Mahfouz, M. RNA virus interference via CRISPR/Cas13asystem in plants. Genome Biol. 2018 ,19, 1. [CrossRef]307. Ahmad, N.; Rahman, M.-U.; Mukhtar, Z.; Zafar, Y.; Zhang, B. A critical look on CRISPR-based genome editing in plants. J. Cell.Physiol. 2020 ,235, 666–682. [CrossRef] [PubMed]308. Mushtaq, M.; Dar, A.A.; Basu, U.; Bhat, B.A.; Mir, R.A.; Vats, S.; Dar, M.S.; Tyagi, A.; Ali, S.; Bansal, M.; et al. IntegratingCRISPR-Cas and Next Generation Sequencing in plant virology. Front. Genet. 2021 ,12, 735489. [CrossRef] [PubMed]309. Landsberger, M.; Gandon, S.; Meaden, S.; Rollie, C.; Chevallereau, A.; Chabas, H.; Buckling, A.; Westra, E.R.; van Houte, S.Anti-CRISPR phages cooperate to overcome CRISPR-Cas immunity. Cell2018 ,174, 908–916.e12. [CrossRef] [PubMed]310. Li, Y.; Bondy-Denomy, J. Anti-CRISPRs go viral: The infection biology of CRISPR-Cas inhibitors. Cell Host Microbe 2021 ,29,704–714. [CrossRef]311. Sternberg, S.H.; LaFrance, B.; Kaplan, M.; Doudna, J.A. Conformational control of DNA target cleavage by CRISPR–Cas9. Nature2015 ,527, 110–113. [CrossRef]312. Doudna, J.A.; Charpentier, E. The new frontier of genome engineering with CRISPR-Cas9. Science 2014 ,346, 1258096. [CrossRef]313. Ceccaldi, R.; Rondinelli, B.; D’Andrea, A.D. Repair pathway choices and consequences at the double-strand break. Trends Cell Biol.2016 ,26, 52–64. [CrossRef]314. Collonnier, C.; Epert, A.; Mara, K.; Maclot, F.; Guyon-Debast, A.; Charlot, F.; White, C.; Schaefer, D.G.; Nogu é, F. CRISPR-Cas9-mediated efﬁcient directed mutagenesis and RAD51-dependent and RAD51-independent gene targeting in the moss Physcomitrellapatens .Plant Biotechnol. J. 2017 ,15, 122–131. [CrossRef]315. Lopez-Obando, M.; Hoffmann, B.; G éry, C.; Guyon-Debast, A.; T éoulé, E.; Rameau, C.; Bonhomme, S.; Nogu é, F. Simple andEfﬁcient Targeting of Multiple Genes Through CRISPR-Cas9 in Physcomitrella patens .G3 Genes Genomes Genet. 2016 ,6, 3647–3653.[CrossRef]316. Tang, Y.; Fu, Y. Class 2 CRISPR/Cas: An expanding biotechnology toolbox for and beyond genome editing. Cell Biosci. 2018 ,8, 59.[CrossRef]317. Saurabh, S. Genome Editing: Revolutionizing the Crop Improvement. Plant Mol. Biol. Report. 2021 ,39, 752–772. [CrossRef]318. Yue, J.-J.; Yuan, J.-L.; Wu, F.-H.; Yuan, Y.-H.; Cheng, Q.-W.; Hsu, C.-T.; Lin, C.-S. Protoplasts: From Isolation to CRISPR/CasGenome Editing Application. Front. Genome Ed. 2021 ,3, 717017. [CrossRef] [PubMed]319. Tyagi, S.; Kumar, R.; Kumar, V .; Won, S.Y.; Shukla, P . Engineering disease resistant plants through CRISPR-Cas9 technology. GMCrop. Food 2021 ,12, 125–144. [CrossRef] [PubMed]320. Ma, X.; Zhang, X.; Liu, H.; Li, Z. Highly efﬁcient DNA-free plant genome editing using virally delivered CRISPR–Cas9. Nat.Plants 2020 ,6, 773–779. [CrossRef] [PubMed]321. Hahn, F.; Korolev, A.; Sanjurjo Loures, L.; Nekrasov, V . A modular cloning toolkit for genome editing in plants. BMC Plant Biol.2020 ,20, 179. [CrossRef] [PubMed]322. Hassan, M.M.; Zhang, Y.; Yuan, G.; De, K.; Chen, J.-G.; Muchero, W.; Tuskan, G.A.; Qi, Y.; Yang, X. Construct design forCRISPR/Cas-based genome editing in plants. Trends Plant Sci. 2021 ,26, 1133–1152. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 41 of 50323. Moradpour, M.; Abdulah, S.N.A. CRISPR/dCas9 platforms in plants: Strategies and applications beyond genome editing. PlantBiotechnol. J. 2020 ,18, 32–44. [CrossRef]324. Moreno-Mateos, M.A.; Fernandez, J.P .; Rouet, R.; Vejnar, C.E.; Lane, M.A.; Mis, E.; Khokha, M.K.; Doudna, J.A.; Giraldez, A.J.CRISPR-Cpf1 mediates efficient homology-directed repair and temperature-controlled genome editing. Nat. Commun. 2017 ,8, 2024.[CrossRef]325. Bandyopadhyay, A.; Kancharla, N.; Javalkote, V .S.; Dasgupta, S.; Brutnell, T.P . CRISPR-Cas12a (Cpf1): A versatile tool in the plantgenome editing tool box for agricultural advancement. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 584151. [CrossRef]326. Komor, A.C.; Kim, Y.B.; Packer, M.S.; Zuris, J.A.; Liu, D.R. Programmable editing of a target base in genomic DNA withoutdouble-stranded DNA cleavage. Nature 2016 ,533, 420–424. [CrossRef]327. Gaudelli, N.M.; Komor, A.C.; Rees, H.A.; Packer, M.S.; Badran, A.H.; Bryson, D.I.; Liu, D.R. Programmable base editing of A T toGC in genomic DNA without DNA cleavage. Nature 2017 ,551, 464–471. [CrossRef]328. Shimatani, Z.; Kashojiya, S.; Takayama, M.; Terada, R.; Arazoe, T.; Ishii, H.; Teramura, H.; Yamamoto, T.; Komatsu, H.; Miura, K.;et al. Targeted base editing in rice and tomato using a CRISPR-Cas9 cytidine deaminase fusion. Nat. Biotechnol. 2017 ,35, 441–443.[CrossRef] [PubMed]329. Veillet, F.; Perrot, L.; Guyon-Debast, A.; Kermarrec, M.-P .; Chauvin, L.; Chauvin, J.-E.; Gallois, J.-L.; Mazier, M.; Nogu é, F.Expanding the CRISPR Toolbox in P . patens Using SpCas9-NG variant and application for gene and base editing in solanaceaecrops. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 1024. [CrossRef] [PubMed]330. Anzalone, A.V .; Randolph, P .B.; Davis, J.R.; Sousa, A.A.; Koblan, L.W.; Levy, J.M.; Chen, P .J.; Wilson, C.; Newby, G.A.; Raguram,A.; et al. Search-and-replace genome editing without double-strand breaks or donor DNA. Nature 2019 ,576, 149–157. [CrossRef][PubMed]331. Guyon-Debast, A.; Alboresi, A.; Terret, Z.; Charlot, F.; Berthier, F.; Vendrell-Mir, P .; Casacuberta, J.M.; Veillet, F.; Morosinotto, T.;Gallois, J.-L.; et al. A blueprint for gene function analysis through Base Editing in the model plant Physcomitrium (Physcomitrella)patens .New Phytol. 2021 ,230, 1258–1272. [CrossRef]332. Li, C.; Zong, Y.; Wang, Y.; Jin, S.; Zhang, D.; Song, Q.; Zhang, R.; Gao, C. Expanded base editing in rice and wheat usinga Cas9-adenosine deaminase fusion. Genome Biol. 2018 ,19, 59. [CrossRef]333. Li, C.; Zhang, R.; Meng, X.; Chen, S.; Zong, Y.; Lu, C.; Qiu, J.-L.; Chen, Y.-H.; Li, J.; Gao, C. Targeted, random mutagenesis of plantgenes with dual cytosine and adenine base editors. Nat. Biotechnol. 2020 ,38, 875–882. [CrossRef]334. Cox, D.B.T.; Gootenberg, J.S.; Abudayyeh, O.O.; Franklin, B.; Kellner, M.J.; Joung, J.; Zhang, F. RNA editing with CRISPR-Cas13.Science 2017 ,358, 1019–1027. [CrossRef]335. Ali, Z.; Mahas, A.; Mahfouz, M. CRISPR/Cas13 as a tool for RNA interference. Trends Plant Sci. 2018 ,23, 374–378. [CrossRef]336. Balderston, S.; Clouse, G.; Ripoll, J.-J.; Pratt, G.K.; Gasiunas, G.; Bock, J.-O.; Bennett, E.P .; Aran, K. Diversiﬁcation of the CRISPRToolbox: Applications of CRISPR-Cas Systems Beyond Genome Editing. Cris. J. 2021 ,4, 400–415. [CrossRef]337. Molla, K.A.; Sretenovic, S.; Bansal, K.C.; Qi, Y. Precise plant genome editing using base editors and prime editors. Nat. Plants2021 ,7, 1166–1187. [CrossRef] [PubMed]338. Abudayyeh, O.O.; Gootenberg, J.S.; Franklin, B.; Koob, J.; Kellner, M.J.; Ladha, A.; Joung, J.; Kirchgatterer, P .; Cox, D.B.T.; Zhang,F. A cytosine deaminase for programmable single-base RNA editing. Science 2019 ,365, 382–386. [CrossRef] [PubMed]339. Lin, Q.; Zong, Y.; Xue, C.; Wang, S.; Jin, S.; Zhu, Z.; Wang, Y.; Anzalone, A.V .; Raguram, A.; Doman, J.L.; et al. Prime genomeediting in rice and wheat. Nat. Biotechnol. 2020 ,38, 582–585. [CrossRef] [PubMed]340. Perroud, P .-F.; Guyon-Debast, A.; Veillet, F.; Kermarrec, M.-P .; Chauvin, L.; Chauvin, J.-E.; Gallois, J.-L.; Nogu é, F. Prime Editing inthe model plant Physcomitrium patens and its potential in the tetraploid potato. Plant Sci. 2022 ,316, 111162. [CrossRef] [PubMed]341. Gallego-Bartolom é, J.; Gardiner, J.; Liu, W.; Papikian, A.; Ghoshal, B.; Kuo, H.Y.; Zhao, J.M.-C.; Segal, D.J.; Jacobsen, S.E. TargetedDNA demethylation of the Arabidopsis genome using the human TET1 catalytic domain. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2018 ,115,E2125–E2134. [CrossRef] [PubMed]342. Papikian, A.; Liu, W.; Gallego-Bartolom é, J.; Jacobsen, S.E. Site-speciﬁc manipulation of Arabidopsis loci using CRISPR-Cas9SunTag systems. Nat. Commun. 2019 ,10, 729. [CrossRef]343. Zheng, H.-X.; Sun, X.; Zhang, X.-S.; Sui, N. m6A Editing: New tool to improve crop quality? Trends Plant Sci. 2020 ,25, 859–867.[CrossRef]344. Maher, M.F.; Nasti, R.A.; Vollbrecht, M.; Starker, C.G.; Clark, M.D.; Voytas, D.F. Plant gene editing through de novo induction ofmeristems. Nat. Biotechnol. 2020 ,38, 84–89. [CrossRef]345. Wang, X.; Ye, L.; Lyu, M.; Ursache, R.; Löytynoja, A.; Mähönen, A.P . An inducible genome editing system for plants. Nat. Plants2020 ,6, 766–772. [CrossRef]346. Nandy, S.; Pathak, B.; Zhao, S.; Srivastava, V . Heat-shock-inducible CRISPR/Cas9 system generates heritable mutations in rice.Plant Direct 2019 ,3, e00145. [CrossRef]347. Decaestecker, W.; Buono, R.A.; Pfeiffer, M.L.; Vangheluwe, N.; Jourquin, J.; Karimi, M.; Van Isterdael, G.; Beeckman, T.; Nowack,M.K.; Jacobs, T.B. CRISPR-TSKO: A technique for efﬁcient mutagenesis in speciﬁc cell types, tissues, or organs in Arabidopsis.Plant Cell 2019 ,31, 2868–2887. [CrossRef]348. Gapinske, M.; Luu, A.; Winter, J.; Woods, W.S.; Kostan, K.A.; Shiva, N.; Song, J.S.; Perez-Pinera, P . CRISPR-SKIP: Programmablegene splicing with single base editors. Genome Biol. 2018 ,19, 107. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 42 of 50349. Chen, S.; Xie, W.; Liu, Z.; Shan, H.; Chen, M.; Song, Y.; Yu, H.; Lai, L.; Li, Z. CRISPR Start-Loss: A novel and practical alternativefor gene silencing through base-editing-induced start codon mutations. Mol. Ther.-Nucleic Acids 2020 ,21, 1062–1073. [CrossRef][PubMed]350. Woo, J.W.; Kim, J.; Kwon, S.I.; Corval án, C.; Cho, S.W.; Kim, H.; Kim, S.-G.; Kim, S.-T.; Choe, S.; Kim, J.-S. DNA-free genomeediting in plants with preassembled CRISPR-Cas9 ribonucleoproteins. Nat. Biotechnol. 2015 ,33, 1162–1164. [CrossRef] [PubMed]351. Svitashev, S.; Schwartz, C.; Lenderts, B.; Young, J.K.; Mark Cigan, A. Genome editing in maize directed by CRISPR–Cas9ribonucleoprotein complexes. Nat. Commun. 2016 ,7, 13274. [CrossRef] [PubMed]352. Zhang, Y.; Liang, Z.; Zong, Y.; Wang, Y.; Liu, J.; Chen, K.; Qiu, J.-L.; Gao, C. Efﬁcient and transgene-free genome editing in wheatthrough transient expression of CRISPR/Cas9 DNA or RNA. Nat. Commun. 2016 ,7, 12617. [CrossRef] [PubMed]353. Liang, Z.; Chen, K.; Li, T.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, Y.; Zhao, Q.; Liu, J.; Zhang, H.; Liu, C.; Ran, Y.; et al. Efﬁcient DNA-free genomeediting of bread wheat using CRISPR/Cas9 ribonucleoprotein complexes. Nat. Commun. 2017 ,8, 14261. [CrossRef]354. Li, S.; Li, J.; He, Y.; Xu, M.; Zhang, J.; Du, W.; Zhao, Y.; Xia, L. Precise gene replacement in rice by RNA transcript-templatedhomologous recombination. Nat. Biotechnol. 2019 ,37, 445–450. [CrossRef]355. Toda, E.; Koiso, N.; Takebayashi, A.; Ichikawa, M.; Kiba, T.; Osakabe, K.; Osakabe, Y.; Sakakibara, H.; Kato, N.; Okamoto, T. Anefﬁcient DNA- and selectable-marker-free genome-editing system using zygotes in rice. Nat. Plants 2019 ,5, 363–368. [CrossRef]356. Kuscu, C.; Parlak, M.; Tufan, T.; Yang, J.; Szlachta, K.; Wei, X.; Mammadov, R.; Adli, M. CRISPR-STOP: Gene silencing throughbase-editing-induced nonsense mutations. Nat. Methods 2017 ,14, 710–712. [CrossRef]357. Lee, C.; Hyun Jo, D.; Hwang, G.-H.; Yu, J.; Kim, J.H.; Park, S.; Kim, J.-S.; Kim, J.H.; Bae, S. CRISPR-Pass: Gene Rescue of NonsenseMutations Using Adenine Base Editors. Mol. Ther. 2019 ,27, 1364–1371. [CrossRef] [PubMed]358. Al-Shayeb, B.; Sachdeva, R.; Chen, L.-X.; Ward, F.; Munk, P .; Devoto, A.; Castelle, C.J.; Olm, M.R.; Bouma-Gregson, K.; Amano,Y.; et al. Clades of huge phages from across Earth’s ecosystems. Nature 2020 ,578, 425–431. [CrossRef] [PubMed]359. Pausch, P .; Al-Shayeb, B.; Bisom-Rapp, E.; Tsuchida, C.A.; Li, Z.; Cress, B.F.; Knott, G.J.; Jacobsen, S.E.; Banﬁeld, J.F.; Doudna, J.A.CRISPR-Cas Ffrom huge phages is a hypercompact genome editor. Science 2020 ,369, 333–337. [CrossRef]360. Kwak, S.-Y.; Lew, T.T.S.; Sweeney, C.J.; Koman, V .B.; Wong, M.H.; Bohmert-Tatarev, K.; Snell, K.D.; Seo, J.S.; Chua, N.-H.; Strano,M.S. Chloroplast-selective gene delivery and expression in planta using chitosan-complexed single-walled carbon nanotubecarriers. Nat. Nanotechnol. 2019 ,14, 447–455. [CrossRef] [PubMed]361. Zhu, H.; Li, C.; Gao, C. Applications of CRISPR–Cas in agriculture and plant biotechnology. Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2020 ,21,661–677. [CrossRef] [PubMed]362. Sauer, N.J.; Mozoruk, J.; Miller, R.B.; Warburg, Z.J.; Walker, K.A.; Beetham, P .R.; Schöpke, C.R.; Gocal, G.F.W. Oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis for precision gene editing. Plant Biotechnol. J. 2016 ,14, 496–502. [CrossRef] [PubMed]363. Sauer, N.J.; Narv áez-Vásquez, J.; Mozoruk, J.; Miller, R.B.; Warburg, Z.J.; Woodward, M.J.; Mihiret, Y.A.; Lincoln, T.A.; Segami,R.E.; Sanders, S.L.; et al. Oligonucleotide-mediated genome editing provides precision and function to engineered nucleases andantibiotics in plants. Plant Physiol. 2016 ,170, 1917–1928. [CrossRef]364. Moerschell, R.P .; Tsunasawa, S.; Sherman, F. Transformation of yeast with synthetic oligonucleotides. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA1988 ,85, 524–528. [CrossRef]365. Yoon, K.; Cole-Strauss, A.; Kmiec, E.B. Targeted gene correction of episomal DNA in mammalian cells mediated by a chimericRNA.DNA oligonucleotide. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1996 ,93, 2071–2076. [CrossRef]366. Aarts, M.; Dekker, M.; de Vries, S.; van der Wal, A.; te Riele, H. Generation of a mouse mutant by oligonucleotide-mediated genemodiﬁcation in ES cells. Nucleic Acids Res. 2006 ,34, e147. [CrossRef]367. Beetham, P .R.; Kipp, P .B.; Sawycky, X.L.; Arntzen, C.J.; May, G.D. A tool for functional plant genomics: Chimeric RNA/DNAoligonucleotides cause in vivo gene-speciﬁc mutations. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1999 ,96, 8774–8778. [CrossRef] [PubMed]368. Hohn, B.; Puchta, H. Gene therapy in plants. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1999 ,96, 8321–8323. [CrossRef] [PubMed]369. Zhu, T.; Peterson, D.J.; Tagliani, L.; St. Clair, G.; Baszczynski, C.L.; Bowen, B. Targeted manipulation of maize genes in vivo usingchimeric RNA/DNA oligonucleotides. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1999 ,96, 8768–8773. [CrossRef] [PubMed]370. Gamper, H.B.; Parekh, H.; Rice, M.C.; Bruner, M.; Youkey, H.; Kmiec, E.B. The DNA strand of chimeric RNA/DNA oligonu-cleotides can direct gene repair/conversion activity in mammalian and plant cell-free extracts. Nucleic Acids Res. 2000 ,28,4332–4339. [CrossRef]371. Breyer, D.; Herman, P .; Brandenburger, A.; Gheysen, G.; Remaut, E.; Soumillion, P .; Van Doorsselaere, J.; Custers, R.; Pauwels,K.; Sneyers, M.; et al. Commentary: Genetic modiﬁcation through oligonucleotide-mediated mutagenesis. A GMO regulatorychallenge? Environ. Biosaf. Res. 2009 ,8, 57–64. [CrossRef] [PubMed]372. Songstad, D.D.; Petolino, J.F.; Voytas, D.F.; Reichert, N.A. Genome editing of plants. CRC. Crit. Rev. Plant Sci. 2017 ,36, 1–23.[CrossRef]373. Holme, I.B.; Gregersen, P .L.; Brinch-Pedersen, H. Induced genetic variation in crop plants by random or targeted mutagenesis:Convergence and differences. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 1468. [CrossRef]374. Cole-Strauss, A.; Yoon, K.; Xiang, Y.; Byrne, B.C.; Rice, M.C.; Gryn, J.; Holloman, W.K.; Kmiec, E.B. Correction of the mutationresponsible for sickle cell anemia by an RNA-DNA oligonucleotide. Science 1996 ,273, 1386–1389. [CrossRef]375. Ruiter, R.; Van Den Brande, I.; Stals, E.; Delaur é, S.; Cornelissen, M.; D’Halluin, K. Spontaneous mutation frequency in plantsobscures the effect of chimeraplasty. Plant Mol. Biol. 2003 ,53, 715–729. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 43 of 50376. Zhu, T.; Mettenburg, K.; Peterson, D.J.; Tagliani, L.; Baszczynski, C.L. Engineering herbicide-resistant maize using chimericRNA/DNA oligonucleotides. Nat. Biotechnol. 2000 ,18, 555–558. [CrossRef]377. Tan, S.; Evans, R.R.; Dahmer, M.L.; Singh, B.K.; Shaner, D.L. Imidazolinone-tolerant crops: History, current status and future. PestManag. Sci. 2005 ,61, 246–257. [CrossRef] [PubMed]378. Gocal, G. Non-Transgenic trait development in crop plants using oligo-directed mutagenesis: Cibus’ rapid trait developmentsystem. In NABC Report 26. New DNA-Editing Approaches: Methods, Applications and Policy for Agriculture ; North AmericanAgricultural Biotechnology Council: Ithaca, NY, USA, 2015; pp. 97–106.379. Gocal, G.F.W.; Schöpke, C.R.; Beetham, P .R. Advances in New Technology for Targeted Modiﬁcation of Plant Genomes ; Zhang, F., Puchta,H., Thomson, J.G., Eds.; Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2015; ISBN 978-1-4939-2555-1.380. Wolt, J.D.; Wang, K.; Yang, B. The regulatory status of genome-edited crops. Plant Biotechnol. J. 2016 ,14, 510–518. [CrossRef][PubMed]381. Jones, H.D. Regulatory uncertainty over genome editing. Nat. Plants 2015 ,1, 14011. [CrossRef] [PubMed]382. Kmiec, E.B.; Johnson, C.; May, G.D. Chloroplast lysates support directed mutagenesis via modiﬁed DNA and chimeric RNA/DNAoligonucleotides. Plant J. 2001 ,27, 267–274. [CrossRef] [PubMed]383. Yu, J.; Xu, F.; Wei, Z.; Zhang, X.; Chen, T.; Pu, L. Epigenomic Landscape and Epigenetic Regulation in Maize. Theor. Appl. Genet.2020 ,133, 1467–1489. [CrossRef] [PubMed]384. Rensing, S.A.; Gofﬁnet, B.; Meyberg, R.; Wu, S.Z.; Bezanilla, M. The Moss Physcomitrium (Physcomitrella )patens : A Model Organismfor Non-Seed Plants. Plant Cell 2020 ,32, 1361–1376. [CrossRef]385. Oh, D.H.; Barkla, B.J.; Vera-Estrella, R.; Pantoja, O.; Lee, S.Y.; Bohnert, H.J.; Dassanayake, M. Cell type-speciﬁc responses tosalinity-the epidermal bladder cell transcriptome of Mesembryanthemum crystallinum .New Phytol. 2015 ,207, 627–644. [CrossRef]386. Himabindu, Y.; Chakradhar, T.; Reddy, M.C.; Kanygin, A.; Redding, K.E.; Chandrasekhar, T. Salt-tolerant genes from halophytesare potential key players of salt tolerance in glycophytes. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2016 ,124, 39–63. [CrossRef]387. Giarola, V .; Bartels, D. What can we learn from the transcriptome of the resurrection plant Craterostigma plantagineum ?Planta 2015 ,242, 427–434. [CrossRef]388. Pampurova, S.; van Dijck, P . The desiccation tolerant secrets of Selaginella lepidophylla : What we have learned so far? Plant Physiol.Biochem. 2014 ,80, 285–290. [CrossRef]389. Ríos-Mel éndez, S.; Valadez-Hern ández, E.; Delgadillo, C.; Luna-Guevara, M.L.; Mart ínez-N úñez, M.A.; S ánchez-P érez, M.;Martínez-y-P érez, J.L.; Arroyo-Becerra, A.; C árdenas, L.; Bibbins-Mart ínez, M.; et al. Pseudocrossidium replicatum (Taylor) R.H.Zander is a fully desiccation-tolerant moss that expresses an inducible molecular mechanism in response to severe abiotic stress.Plant Mol. Biol. 2021 ,107, 387–404. [CrossRef]390. Bitocchi, E.; Rau, D.; Bellucci, E.; Rodriguez, M.; Murgia, M.L.; Gioia, T.; Santo, D.; Nanni, L.; Attene, G.; Papa, R. Beans ( Phaseolusssp.) as a model for understanding crop evolution. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 722. [CrossRef] [PubMed]391. Rothan, C.; Diouf, I.; Causse, M. Trait discovery and editing in tomato. Plant J. 2019 ,97, 73–90. [CrossRef] [PubMed]392. Mrízová, K.; Holaskov á, E.; Öz, M.T.; Jiskrov á, E.; Fr ébort, I.; Galuszka, P . Transgenic barley: A prospective tool for biotechnologyand agriculture. Biotechnol. Adv. 2014 ,32, 137–157. [CrossRef] [PubMed]393. Gürel, F.; Öztürk, Z.N.; Uçarlı, C.; Rosellini, D. Barley genes as tools to confer abiotic stress tolerance in crops. Front. Plant Sci.2016 ,7, 1137. [CrossRef]394. Sallam, A.; Alqudah, A.M.; Dawood, M.F.A.; Baenziger, P .S.; Börner, A. Drought stress tolerance in wheat and barley: Advancesin physiology, breeding and genetics research. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 3137. [CrossRef]395. Mwando, E.; Angessa, T.T.; Han, Y.; Li, C. Salinity tolerance in barley during germination—Homologs and potential genes.J. Zhejiang Univ. Sci. B 2020 ,21, 93–121. [CrossRef]396. Jeyasri, R.; Muthuramalingam, P .; Satish, L.; Karutha Pandian, S.; Chen, J.-T.; Ahmar, S.; Wang, X.; Mora-Poblete, F.; Ramesh, M.;Labudda, M.; et al. An overview of abiotic stress in cereal crops: Negative impacts, regulation, biotechnology and integratedOmics. Plants 2021 ,10, 1472. [CrossRef]397. Kikuchi, A.; Huynh, H.D.; Endo, T.; Watanabe, K. Review of recent transgenic studies on abiotic stress tolerance and futuremolecular breeding in potato. Breed. Sci. 2015 ,65, 85–102. [CrossRef]398. Dahal, K.; Li, X.Q.; Tai, H.; Creelman, A.; Bizimungu, B. Improving potato stress tolerance and tuber yield under a climate changescenario–a current overview. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 563. [CrossRef]399. Handayani, T.; Gilani, S.A.; Watanabe, K.N. Climatic changes and potatoes: How can we cope with the abiotic stresses? Breed. Sci.2019 ,69, 545–563. [CrossRef] [PubMed]400. Ezquer, I.; Salameh, I.; Colombo, L.; Kalaitzis, P . Plant cell walls tackling climate change: Insights into plant cell wall remodeling,its regulation, and biotechnological strategies to improve crop adaptations and photosynthesis in response to global warming.Plants 2020 ,9, 212. [CrossRef] [PubMed]401. Yadav, S.; Mishra, A. Ectopic expression of C4 photosynthetic pathway genes improves carbon assimilation and alleviate stresstolerance for future climate change. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants 2020 ,26, 195–209. [CrossRef] [PubMed]402. Beebe, S.E.; Rao, I.M.; Blair, M.W.; Acosta-Gallegos, J.A. Phenotyping common beans for adaptation to drought. Front. Physiol.2013 ,4, 35. [CrossRef] [PubMed]403. Valliyodan, B.; Ye, H.; Song, L.; Murphy, M.; Grover Shannon, J.; Nguyen, H.T. Genetic diversity and genomic strategies forimproving drought and waterlogging tolerance in soybeans. J. Exp. Bot. 2017 ,68, 1835–1849. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 44 of 50404. Mousavi-Derazmahalleh, M.; Bayer, P .E.; Hane, J.K.; Valliyodan, B.; Nguyen, H.T.; Nelson, M.N.; Erskine, W.; Varshney, R.K.;Papa, R.; Edwards, D. Adapting legume crops to climate change using genomic approaches. Plant Cell Environ. 2019 ,42, 6–19.[CrossRef]405. Mukankusi, C.; Raatz, B.; Nkalubo, S.; Berhanu, F.; Binagwa, P .; Kilango, M.; Williams, M.; Enid, K.; Chirwa, R.; Beebe, S.Genomics, genetics and breeding of common bean in Africa: A review of tropical legume project. Plant Breed. 2018 ,138, 401–414.[CrossRef]406. Oladzad, A.; Porch, T.; Rosas, J.C.; Moghaddam, S.M.; Beaver, J.; Beebe, S.E.; Burridge, J.; Jochua, C.N.; Miguel, M.A.; Miklas,P .N.; et al. Single and Multi-Trait GWAS identify genetic factors associated with production traits in common bean under abioticstress environments. G3 Genes Genomes Genet. 2019 ,9, 1881–1892. [CrossRef]407. Thudi, M.; Palakurthi, R.; Schnable, J.C.; Chitikineni, A.; Dreisigacker, S.; Mace, E.; Srivastava, R.K.; Satyavathi, C.T.; Odeny, D.;Tiwari, V .K.; et al. Genomic resources in plant breeding for sustainable agriculture. J. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,257, 153351. [CrossRef]408. Parmar, N.; Singh, K.H.; Sharma, D.; Singh, L.; Kumar, P .; Nanjundan, J.; Khan, Y.J.; Chauhan, D.K.; Thakur, A.K. Geneticengineering strategies for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance and quality enhancement in horticultural crops: A comprehensivereview. 3 Biotech 2017 ,7, 239. [CrossRef]409. Chaudhary, J.; Khatri, P .; Singla, P .; Kumawat, S.; Kumari, A.; Vinaykumar, R.; Vikram, A.; Jindal, S.K.; Kardile, H.; Kumar, R.; et al.Advances in Omics approaches for abiotic stress tolerance in tomato. Biology 2019 ,8, 90. [CrossRef] [PubMed]410. Salava, H.; Thula, S.; Mohan, V .; Kumar, R.; Maghuly, F. Application of Genome Editing in Tomato Breeding: Mechanisms,Advances, and Prospects. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 682. [CrossRef] [PubMed]411. Rahim, A.H.; Shaﬁka, Z.K.; Bhuiyan, M.A.R. Evaluation and characterization of advanced rice mutant line of rice ( Oryza sativa ),MR219-4 and MR219-9 under drought condition. Res. Dev. Semin. 2012 ,44, 26–28. Available online: https://inis.iaea.org/collection/NCLCollectionStore/_Public/44/096/44096860.pdf (accessed on 23 August 2021).412. Hallajian, M. Integration of mutation and conventional breeding approaches to develop new superior drought-tolerant plants inrice ( Oryza sativa ).Annu. Res. Rev. Biol. 2014 ,4, 1173–1186. [CrossRef]413. Hay, S.; Oo, M.; Minn, M.; Linn, K.Z.; Mar, N.N.; Thin, P .P .; Student, P .D. Development of drought tolerant mutant from rice var.Manawthukha through mutation breeding technique using 60Co Gamma source. Int. J. Innov. Res. Sci. Eng. Technol. 2015 ,4,11205–11212. [CrossRef]414. Efendi, B.; Sabaruddin, Z.; Lukman, H. Mutation with gamma rays irradiation to assemble green super rice tolerant to droughtstress and high yield rice ( Oryza sativa L.).Int. J. Adv. Sci. Eng. Tech. 2017 ,5, 1–5.415. Pang, Y.; Chen, K.; Wang, X.; Xu, J.; Ali, J.; Li, Z. Recurrent selection breeding by dominant male sterility for multiple abioticstresses tolerant rice cultivars. Euphytica 2017 ,213, 268. [CrossRef]416. Dwivedi, S.L.; Stoddard, F.L.; Ortiz, R. Genomic-based root plasticity to enhance abiotic stress adaptation and edible yield ingrain crops. Plant Sci. 2020 ,295, 110365. [CrossRef]417. Choudhary, M.; Wani, S.H.; Kumar, P .; Bagaria, P .K.; Rakshit, S.; Roorkiwal, M.; Varshney, R.K. QTLian breeding for climateresilience in cereals: Progress and prospects. Funct. Integr. Genom. 2019 ,19, 685–701. [CrossRef]418. Dixit, S.; Mallikarjuna Swamy, B.P .; Vikram, P .; Bernier, J.; Sta Cruz, M.T.; Amante, M.; Atri, D.; Kumar, A. Increased droughttolerance and wider adaptability of QDTY12.1 conferred by its interaction with QDTY2.3 and QDTY3.2. Mol. Breed. 2012 ,30,1767–1779. [CrossRef]419. Uga, Y.; Sugimoto, K.; Ogawa, S.; Rane, J.; Ishitani, M.; Hara, N.; Kitomi, Y.; Inukai, Y.; Ono, K.; Kanno, N.; et al. Control of rootsystem architecture by DEEPER ROOTING 1 increases rice yield under drought conditions. Nat. Genet. 2013 ,45, 1097–1102.[CrossRef] [PubMed]420. Arai-Sanoh, Y.; Takai, T.; Yoshinaga, S.; Nakano, H.; Kojima, M.; Sakakibara, H.; Kondo, M.; Uga, Y. Deep rooting conferred byDEEPER ROOTING 1 enhances rice yield in paddy ﬁelds. Sci. Rep. 2014 ,4, 5563. [CrossRef] [PubMed]421. Shamsudin, N.A.A.; Swamy, B.P .M.; Ratnam, W.; Sta Cruz, M.T.; Raman, A.; Kumar, A. Marker assisted pyramiding of droughtyield QTLs into a popular malaysian rice cultivar, MR219. BMC Genet. 2016 ,17, 30. [CrossRef] [PubMed]422. Sahebi, M.; Hanaﬁ, M.M.; Raﬁi, M.Y.; Mahmud, T.M.M.; Azizi, P .; Osman, M.; Abiri, R.; Taheri, S.; Kalhori, N.; Shabanimofrad,M.; et al. Improvement of drought tolerance in rice ( Oryza sativa L.): Genetics, genomic tools, and the WRKY gene family. BioMedRes. Int. 2018 ,2018 , 3158474. [CrossRef]423. Linh, L.H.; Linh, T.H.; Xuan, T.D.; Ham, L.H.; Ismail, A.M.; Khanh, T.D. Molecular breeding to improve salt tolerance of rice(Oryza sativa L.) in the red river delta of vietnam. Int. J. Plant Genom. 2012 ,2012 , 949038. [CrossRef]424. Huyen, L.T.N.; Cuc, L.M.; Ismail, A.M.; Ham, L.H. Introgression the salinity tolerance QTLs Salto into AS996, the elite rice varietyof Vietnam. Am. J. Plant Sci. 2012 ,3, 981–987. [CrossRef]425. Das, G.; Rao, G.J.N. Molecular marker assisted gene stacking for biotic and abiotic stress resistance genes in an elite rice cultivar.Front. Plant Sci. 2015 ,6, 698. [CrossRef]426. Babu, N.N.; Krishnan, S.G.; Vinod, K.K.; Krishnamurthy, S.L.; Singh, V .K.; Singh, M.P .; Singh, R.; Ellur, R.K.; Rai, V .; Bollinedi,H.; et al. Marker aided incorporation of Saltol, a Major QTL associated with seedling stage salt tolerance, into Oryza Sativa ‘PusaBasmati 1121. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 41. [CrossRef]427. Singh, V .K.; Singh, B.D.; Kumar, A.; Maurya, S.; Krishnan, S.G.; Vinod, K.K.; Singh, M.P .; Ellur, R.K.; Bhowmick, P .K.; Singh, A.K.Marker-assisted introgression of Saltol QTL enhances seedling stage salt tolerance in the rice variety “Pusa Basmati 1”. Int. J.Genom. 2018 ,2018 , 8319879. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 45 of 50428. Zafar, S.A.; Hameed, A.; Nawaz, M.A.; MA, W.; Noor, M.A.; Hussain, M.; Mehboob-ur-Rahman. Mechanisms and molecularapproaches for heat tolerance in rice ( Oryza sativa L.) under climate change scenario. J. Integr. Agric. 2018 ,17, 726–738. [CrossRef]429. Lang, N.T.; Ha, P .T.T.; Tru, P .C.; Toan, T.B.; Buu, B.C.; Cho, Y.-C. Breeding for heat tolerance rice based on marker-assistedbackcrosing in Vietnam. Plant Breed. Biotech. 2015 ,3, 274–281. [CrossRef]430. Li, X.M.; Chao, D.Y.; Wu, Y.; Huang, X.; Chen, K.; Cui, L.G.; Su, L.; Ye, W.W.; Chen, H.; Chen, H.C.; et al. Natural alleles ofa Proteasome A2 subunit gene contribute to thermotolerance and adaptation of African rice. Nat. Genet. 2015 ,47, 827–833.[CrossRef] [PubMed]431. Zhao, L.; Lei, J.; Huang, Y.; Zhu, S.; Chen, H.; Huang, R.; Peng, Z.; Tu, Q.; Shen, X.; Yan, S. Mapping quantitative trait loci for heattolerance at anthesis in rice using chromosomal segment substitution lines. Breed. Sci. 2016 ,66, 358–366. [CrossRef] [PubMed]432. Ps, S.; Sv, A.M.; Prakash, C.; Mk, R.; Tiwari, R.; Mohapatra, T.; Singh, N.K. High resolution mapping of QTLs for heat tolerance inrice using a 5K SNP array. Rice 2017 ,10, 28. [CrossRef] [PubMed]433. Shimoyama, N.; Johnson, M.; Beaumont, A.; Schläppi, M. Multiple cold tolerance trait phenotyping reveals shared quantitativetrait loci in Oryza sativa .Rice 2020 ,13, 57. [CrossRef]434. Septiningsih, E.M.; Sanchez, D.L.; Singh, N.; Sendon, P .M.D.; Pamplona, A.M.; Heuer, S.; Mackill, D.J. Identifying novel QTLs forsubmergence tolerance in rice cultivars IR72 and Madabaru. Theor. Appl. Genet. 2012 ,124, 867–874. [CrossRef]435. Septiningsih, E.M.; Hidayatun, N.; Sanchez, D.L.; Nugraha, Y.; Carandang, J.; Pamplona, A.M.; Collard, B.C.Y.; Ismail, A.M.;Mackill, D.J. Accelerating the development of new submergence tolerant rice varieties: The case of Ciherang-Sub1 and PSBRc18-Sub1. Euphytica 2015 ,202, 259–268. [CrossRef]436. Collard, B.C.Y.; Septiningsih, E.M.; Das, S.R.; Carandang, J.J.; Pamplona, A.M.; Sanchez, D.L.; Kato, Y.; Ye, G.; Reddy, J.N.; Singh,U.S.; et al. Developing new ﬂood-tolerant varieties at the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI). Sabrao J. Breed. Genet. 2013 ,45, 42–56.437. Luo, Y.; Yin, Z. Marker-assisted breeding of Thai Fragrance rice for semi-dwarf phenotype, submergence tolerance and diseaseresistance to Rice Blast and Bacterial Blight. Mol. Breed. 2013 ,32, 709–721. [CrossRef]438. Ma, X.; Feng, F.; Wei, H.; Mei, H.; Xu, K.; Chen, S.; Li, T.; Liang, X.; Liu, H.; Luo, L. Genome-wide association study for plantheight and grain yield in rice under contrasting moisture regimes. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 1801. [CrossRef]439. Tong, C.; Hill, C.B.; Zhou, G.; Zhang, X.-Q.; Jia, Y.; Li, C.; Zhang, G.; Jia, X.-Q.; Li, Y. Opportunities for improving waterloggingtolerance in cereal crops-physiological traits and genetic mechanisms opportunities for improving waterlogging tolerance incereal. Crops-Physiological Traits and Genetic Mechanisms. Plants 2021 ,10, 1560. [CrossRef] [PubMed]440. Mohd Ikmal, A.; Noraziyah, A.A.S.; Wickneswari, R.; Amira, I.; Puteri Dinie Ellina, Z. Inter éaction of submergence toleranceand drought yield QTLs (Sub1 and QDTYs) enhances morpho-physiological traits and survival of rice ( Oryza Sativa L.) undersubmergence. Ann. Appl. Biol. 2021 ,178, 355–366. [CrossRef]441. Ruengphayak, S.; Chaichumpoo, E.; Phromphan, S.; Kamolsukyunyong, W.; Sukhaket, W.; Phuvanartnarubal, E.; Korinsak, S.;Korinsak, S.; Vanavichit, A. Pseudo-backcrossing design for rapidly pyramiding multiple traits into a preferential rice variety.Rice 2015 ,8, 7. [CrossRef]442. Kuroha, T.; Nagai, K.; Gamuyao, R.; Wang, D.R.; Furuta, T.; Nakamori, M.; Kitaoka, T.; Adachi, K.; Minami, A.; Mori, Y.; et al.Ethylene-Gibberellin signaling underlies adaptation of rice to periodic ﬂooding. Science 2018 ,361, 181–186. [CrossRef] [PubMed]443. Xiao, N.; Gao, Y.; Qian, H.; Gao, Q.; Wu, Y.; Zhang, D.; Zhang, X.; Yu, L.; Li, Y.; Pan, C.; et al. Identiﬁcation of genes related to coldtolerance and a functional allele that confers cold tolerance. Plant Physiol. 2018 ,177, 1108–1123. [CrossRef] [PubMed]444. Yu, J.; Zhao, W.; Tong, W.; He, Q.; Yoon, M.Y.; Li, F.P .; Choi, B.; Heo, E.B.; Kim, K.W.; Park, Y.J. A Genome-Wide Association StudyReveals Candidate Genes Related to Salt Tolerance in Rice ( Oryza sativa ) at the Germination Stage. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 3145.[CrossRef] [PubMed]445. Alseekh, S.; Kostova, D.; Bulut, M.; Fernie, A.R. Genome-wide association studies: Assessing trait characteristics in model andcrop plants. Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 2021 ,78, 5743–5754. [CrossRef]446. Mukherjee, S.; Mukherjee, A.; Das, P .; Bandyopadhyay, S.; Chattopadhyay, D.; Chatterjee, J.; Majumder, A.L. A Salt-tolerantchloroplastic FBPase from Oryza coarctata confers improved photosynthesis with higher yield and multi-stress tolerance to indicarice. Plant Cell Tissue Organ Cult. 2021 ,145, 561–578. [CrossRef]447. Zeng, Y.; Wen, J.; Zhao, W.; Wang, Q.; Huang, W. Rational improvement of rice yield and cold tolerance by editing the three genesOsPIN5b ,GS3, and OsMYB30 with the CRISPR–Cas9 System. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,10, 1663. [CrossRef]448. Usman, B.; Nawaz, G.; Zhao, N.; Liao, S.; Liu, Y.; Li, R. Precise editing of the Ospyl9 gene by RNA-Guided Cas9 nuclease confersenhanced drought tolerance and grain yield in rice ( Oryza Sativa L.) by regulating circadian rhythm and abiotic stress responsiveproteins. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 7854. [CrossRef]449. Ogata, T.; Ishizaki, T.; Fujita, M.; Fujita, Y. CRISPR/Cas9-Targeted mutagenesis of OsERA1 confers enhanced responses to abscisicacid and drought stress and increased primary root growth under nonstressed conditions in rice. PLoS ONE 2020 ,15, e0243376.[CrossRef]450. Zhang, A.; Liu, Y.; Wang, F.; Li, T.; Chen, Z.; Kong, D.; Bi, J.; Zhang, F.; Luo, X.; Wang, J.; et al. Enhanced rice salinity tolerance viaCRISPR/Cas9-Targeted mutagenesis of the OsRR22 gene. Mol. Breed. 2019 ,39, 47. [CrossRef] [PubMed]451. Santosh Kumar, V .V .; Verma, R.K.; Yadav, S.K.; Yadav, P .; Watts, A.; Rao, M.V .; Chinnusamy, V . CRISPR-Cas9 mediated genomeediting of drought and salt tolerance ( OsDST ) gene in Indica mega rice cultivar MTU1010. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants 2020 ,26,1099–1110. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 46 of 50452. Zang, X.; Geng, X.; Wang, F.; Liu, Z.; Zhang, L.; Zhao, Y.; Tian, X.; Ni, Z.; Yao, Y.; Xin, M.; et al. Overexpression of wheat Ferritingene TaFER-5B enhances tolerance to heat stress and other abiotic stresses associated with the ROS scavenging. BMC Plant Biol.2017 ,17, 14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]453. Mega, R.; Abe, F.; Kim, J.S.; Tsuboi, Y.; Tanaka, K.; Kobayashi, H.; Sakata, Y.; Hanada, K.; Tsujimoto, H.; Kikuchi, J.; et al. Tuningwater-use efﬁciency and drought tolerance in wheat using abscisic acid receptors. Nat. Plants 2019 ,5, 153–159. [CrossRef][PubMed]454. Ayadi, M.; Brini, F.; Masmoudi, K. Overexpression of a wheat Aquaporin gene, Tdpip2;1, enhances salt and drought tolerance intransgenic durum wheat Cv. Maali. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 2389. [CrossRef] [PubMed]455. Qin, N.; Xu, W.; Hu, L.; Li, Y.; Wang, H.; Qi, X.; Fang, Y.; Hua, X. Drought tolerance and proteomics studies of transgenic wheatcontaining the maize C4 Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxylase (PEPC) gene. Protoplasma 2016 ,253, 1503–1512. [CrossRef]456. Qi, X.; Xu, W.; Zhang, J.; Guo, R.; Zhao, M.; Hu, L.; Wang, H.; Dong, H.; Li, Y. Physiological characteristics and metabolomicsof transgenic wheat containing the maize C4 Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxylase (PEPC) gene under high temperature stress.Protoplasma 2017 ,254, 1017–1030. [CrossRef]457. Gao, H.; Wang, Y.; Xu, P .; Zhang, Z. Overexpression of a WRKY Transcription Factor TaWRKY2 enhances drought stress tolerancein transgenic wheat. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 997. [CrossRef]458. Cui, X.Y.; Gao, Y.; Guo, J.; Yu, T.F.; Zheng, W.J.; Liu, Y.W.; Chen, J.; Xu, Z.S.; Ma, Y.Z. BES/BZR Transcription Factor TaBZR2positively regulates drought responses by activation of TaGST1. Plant Physiol. 2019 ,180, 605–620. [CrossRef]459. Zang, X.; Geng, X.; He, K.; Wang, F.; Tian, X.; Xin, M.; Yao, Y.; Hu, Z.; Ni, Z.; Sun, Q.; et al. Overexpression of the wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)TaPEPKR2 gene enhances heat and dehydration tolerance in both wheat and Arabidopsis. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 1710.[CrossRef] [PubMed]460. le Roux, M.L.; Kunert, K.J.; van der Vyver, C.; Cullis, C.A.; Botha, A.M. Expression of a small Ubiquitin-like modiﬁer proteaseincreases drought tolerance in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.).Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 266. [CrossRef] [PubMed]461. Kim, D.; Alptekin, B.; Budak, H. CRISPR/Cas9 Genome Editing in wheat. Funct. Integr. Genom. 2018 ,18, 31–41. [CrossRef][PubMed]462. Wei, A.Y.; He, C.M.; Li, B.; Li, N.; Zhang, J.R. The pyramid of transgenes TsVP and BetA effectively enhances the drought toleranceof maize plants. Plant Biotech. J. 2011 ,9, 216–229. [CrossRef] [PubMed]463. Castiglioni, P .; Warner, D.; Bensen, R.J.; Anstrom, D.C.; Harrison, J.; Stoecker, M.; Abad, M.; Kumar, G.; Salvador, S.; D’Ordine,R.; et al. Bacterial RNA chaperones confer abiotic stress tolerance in plants and improved grain yield in maize under water-limitedconditions. Plant Physiol. 2008 ,147, 446–455. [CrossRef]464. Du, H.; Shen, X.; Huang, Y.; Huang, M.; Zhang, Z. Overexpression of Vitreoscilla Hemoglobin increases waterlogging tolerance inArabidopsis and Maize. BMC Plant Biol. 2016 ,16, 35. [CrossRef]465. Liu, Y.; Qin, L.; Han, L.; Xiang, Y.; Zhao, D. Overexpression of Maize SDD1 (ZmSDD1) improves drought resistance in Zea mays L.by reducing stomatal density. Plant Cell Tissue Organ Cult. 2015 ,122, 147–159. [CrossRef]466. Casaretto, J.A.; El-kereamy, A.; Zeng, B.; Stiegelmeyer, S.M.; Chen, X.; Bi, Y.M.; Rothstein, S.J. Expression of OsMYB55 in Maizeactivates stress-responsive genes and enhances heat and drought tolerance. BMC Genom. 2016 ,17, 312. [CrossRef]467. Yu, F.; Liang, K.; Fang, T.; Zhao, H.; Han, X.; Cai, M.; Qiu, F. A Group VII Ethylene Response Factor gene, ZmEREB180, coordinateswaterlogging tolerance in maize seedlings. Plant Biotech. J. 2019 ,17, 2286–2298. [CrossRef]468. Shi, J.; Gao, H.; Wang, H.; Laﬁtte, H.R.; Archibald, R.L.; Yang, M.; Hakimi, S.M.; Mo, H.; Habben, J.E. ARGOS8 variants generatedby CRISPR-Cas9 improve maize grain yield under ﬁeld drought stress conditions. Plant Biotech. J. 2017 ,15, 207–216. [CrossRef]469. Zhang, M.; Cao, Y.; Wang, Z.; Wang, Z.Q.; Shi, J.; Liang, X.; Song, W.; Chen, Q.; Lai, J.; Jiang, C. A Retrotransposon in an HKT1family sodium transporter causes variation of leaf Na+exclusion and salt tolerance in maize. New Phytol. 2018 ,217, 1161–1176.[CrossRef] [PubMed]470. Roy, B.; Noren, S.K.; Mandal, A.B.; Basu, A.K. Genetic engineering for abiotic stress tolerance in agricultural crops. Biotechnology2011 ,10, 1–22. [CrossRef]471. Reddy, I.N.B.L.; Kim, B.K.; Yoon, I.S.; Kim, K.H.; Kwon, T.R. Salt tolerance in rice: Focus on mechanisms and approaches. Rice Sci.2017 ,24, 123–144. [CrossRef]472. Yasuda, H. Cross-tolerance to thermal stresses and its application to the development of cold tolerant rice. Jpn. Agric. Res. Q.2017 ,51, 99–105. [CrossRef]473. Baillo, E.H.; Kimotho, R.N.; Zhang, Z.; Xu, P . Transcription factors associated with abiotic and biotic stress tolerance and theirpotential for crops improvement. Genes 2019 ,10, 771. [CrossRef]474. Kumar, V .; Datir, S.; Khare, T.; Shriram, V . Advances in biotechnological tools: Improving abiotic stress tolerance in rice. InAdvances in Rice Research for Abiotic Stress Tolerance ; Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, CA, USA, 2018; Chapter 30; pp. 615–632.ISBN 9780128143322. [CrossRef]475. Hima Kumari, P .; Venkatesh, K.; Krupanidhi, S.; Anil Kumar, S. An update on molecular strategies of transgenic rice toleranceto abiotic stresses. In Molecular Approaches in Plant Biology and Environmental Challenges. Energy, Environment, and Sustainability ;Singh, S., Upadhyay, S., Pandey, A., Kumar, S., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019. [CrossRef]476. Tabassum, J.; Ahmad, S.; Hussain, B.; Mawia, A.M.; Zeb, A.; Ju, L. Applications and potential of genome-editing systems in riceimprovement: Current and future perspectives. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 1359. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 47 of 50477. Boonchai, C.; Udomchalothorn, T.; Sripinyowanich, S.; Comai, L.; Buaboocha, T.; Chadchawan, S. Rice overexpressing OsNUC1-sreveals differential gene expression leading to yield loss reduction after salt stress at the booting stage. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 3936. [CrossRef]478. Wu, T.; Zhang, M.; Zhang, H.; Huang, K.; Chen, M.; Chen, C.; Yang, X.; Li, Z.; Chen, H.; Ma, Z.; et al. Identiﬁcation andcharacterization of EDT1 conferring drought tolerance in rice. J. Plant Biol. 2019 ,62, 39–47. [CrossRef]479. Selvaraj, M.G.; Jan, A.; Ishizaki, T.; Valencia, M.; Dedicova, B.; Maruyama, K.; Ogata, T.; Todaka, D.; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki, K.;Nakashima, K.; et al. Expression of the CCCH-Tandem Zinc Finger protein gene OsTZF5 under a stress-inducible promotermitigates the effect of drought stress on rice grain yield under ﬁeld conditions. Plant Biotech. J. 2020 ,18, 1711–1721. [CrossRef]480. Qin, Q.; Wang, Y.; Huang, L.; Du, F.; Zhao, X.; Li, Z.; Wang, W.; Fu, B. A U-Box E3 Ubiquitin ligase OsPUB67 is positively involvedin drought tolerance in rice. Plant Mol. Biol. 2020 ,102, 89–107. [CrossRef]481. Darwish, E.; Rehman, S.U.; Mao, X.; Jing, R. A Wheat Stress Induced WRKY Transcription factor TaWRKY32 confers droughtstress tolerance in Oryza sativa .Asian J. Agric. Biol. 2021 ,2021 , 1–7. [CrossRef]482. Park, S.I.; Kwon, H.J.; Cho, M.H.; Song, J.S.; Kim, B.G.; Baek, J.H.; Kim, S.L.; Ji, H.S.; Kwon, T.R.; Kim, K.H.; et al. TheOSERF115/AP2EREBP110 Transcription factor is involved in the multiple stress tolerance to heat and drought in rice plants. Int.J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 7181. [CrossRef] [PubMed]483. Wang, X.; Yu, C.; Liu, Y.; Yang, L.; Li, Y.; Yao, W.; Cai, Y.; Yan, X.; Li, S.; Cai, Y.; et al. GmFAD3A, A !-3 Fatty acid desaturasegene, enhances cold tolerance and seed germination rate under low temperature in rice. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 3796. [CrossRef][PubMed]484. Zhao, Q.; Feng, Q.; Lu, H.; Li, Y.; Wang, A.; Tian, Q.; Zhan, Q.; Lu, Y.; Zhang, L.; Huang, T.; et al. Pan-Genome analysis highlightsthe extent of genomic variation in cultivated and wild rice. Nat. Genet. 2018 ,50, 278–284. [CrossRef] [PubMed]485. Wang, W.S.; Pan, Y.J.; Zhao, X.Q.; Dwivedi, D.; Zhu, L.H.; Ali, J.; Fu, B.Y.; Li, Z.K. Drought-induced site-speciﬁc DNA methylationand its association with drought tolerance in rice ( Oryza Sativa L.).J. Exp. Bot. 2011 ,62, 1951–1960. [CrossRef] [PubMed]486. Saraswat, S.; Yadav, A.K.; Sirohi, P .; Singh, N.K. Role of Epigenetics in crop improvement: Water and heat stress. J. Plant Biol.2017 ,60, 231–240. [CrossRef]487. Biswas, S.; Zhang, D.; Shi, J. CRISPR/Cas Systems: Opportunities and challenges for crop breeding. Plant Cell Rep. 2021 ,40,979–998. [CrossRef]488. Ansari, W.A.; Chandanshive, S.U.; Bhatt, V .; Nadaf, A.B.; Vats, S.; Katara, J.L.; Sonah, H.; Deshmukh, R. Genome Editing inCereals: Approaches, Applications and Challenges. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 4040. [CrossRef]489. Vurukonda, S.S.K.P .; Vardharajula, S.; Shrivastava, M.; SkZ, A. Enhancement of drought stress tolerance in crops by plant growthpromoting Rhizobacteria. Microbiol. Res. 2016 ,184, 13–24. [CrossRef]490. Etesami, H.; Beattie, G.A. Mining halophytes for plant growth-promoting halotolerant bacteria to enhance the salinity toleranceof non-halophytic crops. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 148. [CrossRef]491. Ji, J.; Yuan, D.; Jin, C.; Wang, G.; Li, X.; Guan, C. Enhancement of growth and salt tolerance of rice seedlings ( Oryza Sativa L.)by regulating ethylene production with a novel halotolerant PGPR strain Glutamicibacter sp. YD01 containing ACC deaminaseactivity. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2020 ,42, 42. [CrossRef]492. Joshi, B.; Chaudhary, A.; Singh, H.; Kumar, P .A. Prospective evaluation of individual and consortia plant growth promotingRhizobacteria for drought stress amelioration in rice ( Oryza Sativa L.).Plant Soil 2020 ,457, 225–240. [CrossRef]493. Naik, K.; Mishra, S.; Srichandan, H.; Singh, P .K.; Choudhary, A. Microbial formulation and growth of cereals, pulses, oilseeds andvegetable crops. Sustain. Environ. Res. 2020 ,30, 10. [CrossRef]494. Bonatelli, M.L.; Lacerda-J únior, G.V .; dos Reis Junior, F.B.; Fernandes-J únior, P .I.; Melo, I.S.; Quecine, M.C. Beneﬁcial plant-associated microorganisms from semiarid regions and seasonally dry environments: A review. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,11, 553223.[CrossRef]495. Verma, H.; Kumar, D.; Kumar, V .; Kumari, M.; Singh, S.K.; Sharma, V .K.; Droby, S.; Santoyo, G.; White, J.F.; Kumar, A. Thepotential application of endophytes in management of stress from drought and salinity in crop plants. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 1729.[CrossRef]496. Islam, F.; Yasmeen, T.; Ali, Q.; Ali, S.; Arif, M.S.; Hussain, S.; Rizvi, H. Inﬂuence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa as PGPR on oxidativestress tolerance in wheat under Zn stress. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2014 ,104, 285–293. [CrossRef]497. Timmusk, S.; Abd El-Daim, I.A.; Copolovici, L.; Tanilas, T.; Kännaste, A.; Behers, L.; Nevo, E.; Seisenbaeva, G.; Stenström, E.;Niinemets, Ü. Drought-tolerance of wheat improved by rhizosphere bacteria from harsh environments: Enhanced biomassproduction and reduced emissions of stress volatiles. PLoS ONE 2014 ,9, e96086. [CrossRef]498. Barnawal, D.; Bharti, N.; Pandey, S.S.; Pandey, A.; Chanotiya, C.S.; Kalra, A. Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria enhancewheat salt and drought stress tolerance by altering endogenous phytohormone levels and TaCTR1 /TaDREB2 expression. Physiol.Plant. 2017 ,161, 502–514. [CrossRef]499. Nawaz, A.; Shahbaz, M.; Asadullah, M.; Imran, A.; Marghoob, M.U.; Imtiaz, M.; Mubeen, F. Potential of salt tolerant PGPR ingrowth and yield augmentation of wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) under saline conditions. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 2019. [CrossRef]500. Rodríguez-Salazar, J.; Su árez, R.; Caballero-Mellado, J.; Iturriaga, G. Trehalose accumulation in Azospirillum brasilense improvesdrought tolerance and biomass in maize plants. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2009 ,296, 52–59. [CrossRef]501. Curá, J.A.; Franz, D.R.; Filosof ía, J.E.; Balestrasse, K.B.; Burgueño, L.E. Inoculation with Azospirillum sp. and Herbaspirillum sp.bacteria increases the tolerance of maize to drought stress. Microorganisms 2017 ,5, 41. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 48 of 50502. Shirinbayan, S.; Khosravi, H.; Malakouti, M.J. Alleviation of drought stress in maize ( Zea mays ) by inoculation with Azotobacterstrains isolated from semi-arid regions. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2019 ,133, 138–145. [CrossRef]503. Checchio, M.V .; de C ássia Alves, R.; de Oliveira, K.R.; Moro, G.V .; dos Santos, D.M.M.; Grat ão, P .L. Enhancement of salt tolerancein corn using Azospirillum brasilense : An approach on antioxidant systems. J. Plant Res. 2021 ,134, 1279–1289. [CrossRef]504. International Wheat Genome Sequencing Consortium (IWGSC). Shifting the limits in wheat research and breeding using a fullyannotated reference genome. Science 2018 ,361, eaar7191. [CrossRef]505. Khadka, K.; Raizada, M.N.; Navabi, A. Recent progress in germplasm evaluation and gene mapping to enable breeding ofdrought-tolerant wheat. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 1149. [CrossRef] [PubMed]506. Barakat, M.N.; Saleh, M.S.; Al-Doss, A.A.; Moustafa, K.A.; Elshafei, A.A.; Zakri, A.M.; Al-Qurainy, F.H. Mapping of QTLsassociated with abscisic acid and water stress in wheat. Biol. Plant. 2015 ,59, 291–297. [CrossRef]507. Malik, S.; Malik, T.A. Genetic mapping of potential QTLs associated with drought tolerance in wheat. J. Anim. Plant Sci. 2015 ,25,1032–1040.508. Goel, S.; Singh, K.; Grewal, S.; Nath, M. Impact of “Omics” in improving drought tolerance in wheat. Crit. Rev. Plant Sci. 2020 ,39,222–235. [CrossRef]509. Colmer, T.D.; Flowers, T.J.; Munns, R. Use of wild relatives to improve salt tolerance in wheat. J. Exp. Bot. 2006 ,57, 1059–1078.[CrossRef]510. Placido, D.F.; Campbell, M.T.; Folsom, J.J.; Cui, X.; Kruger, G.R.; Baenziger, P .S.; Walia, H. Introgression of novel traits from a wildwheat relative improves drought adaptation in wheat. Plant Physiol. 2013 ,161, 1806–1819. [CrossRef]511. Raina, A.; Laskar, R.; Khursheed, S.; Amin, R.; Tantray, Y.; Parveen, K.; Khan, S. Role of Mutation breeding in crop improvement-past, present and future. Asian Res. J. Agric. 2016 ,2, 1–13. [CrossRef]512. Sen, A.; Ozturk, I.; Yaycili, O.; Alikamanoglu, S. Drought tolerance in irradiated wheat mutants studied by genetic and biochemicalmarkers. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2017 ,36, 669–679. [CrossRef]513. Jankowicz-Cieslak, J.; Mba, C.; Till, B.J. Mutagenesis for crop breeding and functional genomics. In Biotechnologies for PlantMutation Breeding: Protocols ; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016. [CrossRef]514. Todkar, L.; Singh, G.P .; Jain, N.; Singh, P .K.; Prabhu, K.V . Introgression of drought tolerance QTLs through marker assistedbackcross breeding in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.).Indian J. Genet. Plant Breed. 2020 ,80, 209–212. [CrossRef]515. Khalid, M.; Afzal, F.; Gul, A.; Amir, R.; Subhani, A.; Ahmed, Z.; Mahmood, Z.; Xia, X.; Rasheed, A.; He, Z. Molecularcharacterization of 87 functional genes in wheat diversity panel and their association with phenotypes under well-watered andwater-limited conditions. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 717. [CrossRef] [PubMed]516. Ballesteros, D.C.; Mason, R.E.; Addison, C.K.; Andrea Acuña, M.; Nelly Arguello, M.; Subramanian, N.; Miller, R.G.; Sater, H.;Gbur, E.E.; Miller, D.; et al. Tolerance of wheat to vegetative stage soil waterlogging is conditioned by both constitutive andadaptive QTL. Euphytica 2015 ,201, 329–343. [CrossRef]517. Khan, S.; Anwar, S.; Yu, S.; Sun, M.; Yang, Z.; Gao, Z.-Q. Development of drought-tolerant transgenic wheat: Achievements andlimitations. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 3350. [CrossRef]518. Abebe, T.; Guenzi, A.C.; Martin, B.; Cushman, J.C. Tolerance of mannitol-accumulating transgenic wheat to water stress andsalinity. Plant Physiol. 2003 ,131, 1748–1755. [CrossRef]519. Wang, G.P .; Hui, Z.; Li, F.; Zhao, M.R.; Zhang, J.; Wang, W. Improvement of heat and drought photosynthetic tolerance in wheatby overaccumulation of glycinebetaine. Plant Biotech. Rep. 2010 ,4, 213–222. [CrossRef]520. He, C.; Zhang, W.; Gao, Q.; Yang, A.; Hu, X.; Zhang, J. Enhancement of drought resistance and biomass by increasing the amountof glycine betaine in wheat seedlings. Euphytica 2011 ,177, 151–167. [CrossRef]521. Pavei, D.; Gonçalves-Vidigal, M.C.; Schuelter, A.R.; Schuster, I.; Vieira, E.S.N.; Vendruscolo, E.C.G.; Poletine, J.P . Response towater stress in transgenic (P5CS gene) wheat plants ( Triticum aestivum L.).Aust. J. Crop Sci. 2016 ,10, 776–783. [CrossRef]522. Tian, F.; Wang, W.; Liang, C.; Wang, X.; Wang, G.; Wang, W. Overaccumulation of glycine betaine makes the function of thethylakoid membrane better in wheat under salt stress. Crop J. 2017 ,5, 73–82. [CrossRef]523. Maghsoudi, K.; Emam, Y.; Niazi, A.; Pessarakli, M.; Arvin, M.J. P5CS expression level and proline accumulation in the sensitiveand tolerant wheat cultivars under control and drought stress conditions in the presence/absence of silicon and salicylic acid.J. Plant Interact. 2018 ,13, 461–471. [CrossRef]524. Bahieldin, A.; Mahfouz, H.T.; Eissa, H.F.; Saleh, O.M.; Ramadan, A.M.; Ahmed, I.A.; Dyer, W.E.; El-Itriby, H.A.; Madkour, M.A.Field evaluation of transgenic wheat plants stably expressing the HV A1 gene for drought tolerance. Physiol. Plant. 2005 ,123,421–427. [CrossRef]525. Yu, T.F.; Xu, Z.S.; Guo, J.K.; Wang, Y.X.; Abernathy, B.; Fu, J.D.; Chen, X.; Zhou, Y.-B.; Chen, M.; Ye, X.G.; et al. Improved droughttolerance in wheat plants overexpressing a synthetic bacterial cold shock protein gene SeCspA. Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 44050. [CrossRef]526. Ben-Saad, R.; Ben-Ramdhan, W.; Zouari, N.; Azaza, J.; Mieulet, D.; Guiderdoni, E.; Ellouz, R.; Hassairi, A. Marker-Free TransgenicDurum Wheat Cv. Karim Expressing the AlSAP gene exhibits a high level of tolerance to salinity and dehydration stresses. Mol.Breed. 2012 ,30, 521–533. [CrossRef]527. Zhang, H.F.; Xu, W.G.; Wang, H.W.; Hu, L.; Li, Y.; Qi, X.L.; Zhang, L.; Li, C.X.; Hua, X. Pyramiding expression of maize genesencoding Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxylase (PEPC) and Pyruvate Orthophosphate Dikinase (PPDK) synergistically improve thephotosynthetic characteristics of transgenic wheat. Protoplasma 2014 ,251, 1163–1173. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 49 of 50528. Hou, J.; Huang, X.; Sun, W.; Du, C.; Wang, C.; Xie, Y.; Ma, Y.; Ma, D. Accumulation of water-soluble carbohydrates and geneexpression in wheat stems correlates with drought resistance. J. Plant Physiol. 2018 ,231, 182–191. [CrossRef]529. Gao, S.; Xu, H.; Cheng, X.; Chen, M.; Xu, Z.; Li, L.; Ye, X.; Du, L.; Hao, X.; Ma, Y . Improvement of wheat drought and salt tolerance byexpression of a stress-inducible transcription factor GmDREB of soybean ( Glycine max ).Chin. Sci. Bull. 2005 ,50, 2714–2723. [CrossRef]530. Xue, G.P .; Way, H.M.; Richardson, T.; Drenth, J.; Joyce, P .A.; McIntyre, C.L. Overexpression of TaNAC69 leads to enhancedtranscript levels of stress up-regulated genes and dehydration tolerance in bread wheat. Mol. Plant 2011 ,4, 697–712. [CrossRef]531. Yadav, D.; Shavrukov, Y.; Bazanova, N.; Chirkova, L.; Borisjuk, N.; Kovalchuk, N.; Ismagul, A.; Parent, B.; Langridge, P .; Hrmova,M.; et al. Constitutive overexpression of the TaNF-YB4 gene in transgenic wheat signiﬁcantly improves grain yield. J. Exp. Bot.2015 ,66, 6635–6650. [CrossRef]532. Li, L.; Zheng, M.; Deng, G.; Liang, J.; Zhang, H.; Pan, Z.; Long, H.; Yu, M. Overexpression of AtHDG11 enhanced droughttolerance in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.).Mol. Breed. 2016 ,36, 23. [CrossRef]533. Bi, H.; Shi, J.; Kovalchuk, N.; Luang, S.; Bazanova, N.; Chirkova, L.; Zhang, D.; Shavrukov, Y.; Stepanenko, A.; Tricker, P .;et al. Overexpression of the TaSHN1 transcription factor in bread wheat leads to leaf surface modiﬁcations, improved droughttolerance, and no yield penalty under controlled growth conditions. Plant Cell Environ. 2018 ,41, 2549–2566. [CrossRef] [PubMed]534. Luang, S.; Sornaraj, P .; Bazanova, N.; Jia, W.; Eini, O.; Hussain, S.S.; Kovalchuk, N.; Agarwal, P .K.; Hrmova, M.; Lopato, S. TheWheat TabZIP2 transcription factor is activated by the nutrient starvation-responsive SnRK3/CIPK protein kinase. Plant Mol. Biol.2018 ,96, 543–561. [CrossRef] [PubMed]535. Noor, S.; Ali, S.; Ali, G.M. Comparative study of transgenic (DREB1A) and non-transgenic wheat lines on relative water content,sugar, proline and chlorophyll under drought and salt stresses. Sarhad J. Agric. 2018 ,34, 986–993. [CrossRef]536. Guerra, D.; Crosatti, C.; Khoshro, H.H.; Mastrangelo, A.M.; Mica, E.; Mazzucotelli, E. Post-Transcriptional and Post-Translationalregulations of drought and heat response in plants: A Spider’s Web of mechanisms. Front. Plant Sci. 2015 ,6, 57. [CrossRef] [PubMed]537. Cui, X.Y.; Du, Y.T.; Fu, J.d.; Yu, T.F.; Wang, C.T.; Chen, M.; Chen, J.; Ma, Y.Z.; Xu, Z.S. Wheat CBL-Interacting Protein Kinase 23positively regulates drought stress and ABA responses. BMC Plant Biol. 2018 ,18, 93. [CrossRef]538. Montenegro, J.D.; Golicz, A.A.; Bayer, P .E.; Hurgobin, B.; Lee, H.T.; Chan, C.K.K.; Visendi, P .; Lai, K.; Doležel, J.; Batley, J.; et al.The Pangenome of hexaploid bread wheat. Plant J. 2017 ,90, 1007–1013. [CrossRef]539. Ribaut, J.M. Drought Adaptation in Cereals ; The Haworth Press Inc.: Binghamton, NY, USA, 2006; p. 682. ISBN 9781560222781.540. Ribaut, J.M.; Ragot, M. Marker-assisted selection to improve drought adaptation in maize: The backcross approach, perspectives,limitations, and alternatives. J. Exp. Bot. 2007 ,58, 351–360. [CrossRef]541. Gong, F.; Takahashi, H.; Omori, F.; Wang, W.; Mano, Y.; Nakazono, M. QTLs for constitutive aerenchyma from Zea nicaraguensisimprove tolerance of maize to root-zone oxygen deﬁciency. J. Exp. Bot. 2019 ,70, 6475–6487. [CrossRef]542. Prasanna, B.M.; Cairns, J.E.; Zaidi, P .H.; Beyene, Y.; Makumbi, D.; Gowda, M.; Magorokosho, C.; Zaman-Allah, M.; Olsen, M.;Das, A.; et al. Beat the stress: Breeding for climate resilience in maize for the tropical rainfed environments. Theor. Appl. Genet.2021 ,134, 1729–1752. [CrossRef]543. Xiao, Y.; Liu, H.; Wu, L.; Warburton, M.; Yan, J. Genome-Wide Association Studies in maize: Praise and stargaze. Mol. Plant 2017 ,10, 359–374. [CrossRef]544. Lopes, M.S.; Araus, J.L.; van Heerden, P .D.R.; Foyer, C.H. Enhancing drought tolerance in C4 crops. J. Exp. Bot. 2011 ,62,3135–3153. [CrossRef] [PubMed]545. Shikha, M.; Kanika, A.; Rao, A.R.; Mallikarjuna, M.G.; Gupta, H.S.; Nepolean, T. Genomic selection for drought tolerance usingGenome-Wide SNPs in Maize. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 550. [CrossRef] [PubMed]546. Abiko, T.; Kotula, L.; Shiono, K.; Malik, A.I.; Colmer, T.D.; Nakazono, M. Enhanced formation of aerenchyma and induction ofa barrier to radial oxygen loss in adventitious roots of Zea Nicaraguensis contribute to its waterlogging tolerance as comparedwith Maize ( Zea mays ssp. mays). Plant Cell Environ. 2012 ,35, 1618–1630. [CrossRef] [PubMed]547. Sharma, D.; Khulbe, R.K.; Pal, R.S.; Bettanaika, J.; Kant, L. Wild progenitor and landraces led genetic gain in the modern-dayMaize ( Zea mays L.). In Landraces-Traditional Variety and Natural Breed ; IntechOpen: London, UK, 2021; pp. 1–16. [CrossRef]548. Hirsch, C.N.; Foerster, J.M.; Johnson, J.M.; Sekhon, R.S.; Muttoni, G.; Vaillancourt, B.; Peñagaricano, F.; Lindquist, E.; Pedraza,M.A.; Barry, K.; et al. Insights into the Maize Pan-Genome and Pan-Transcriptome. Plant Cell 2014 ,26, 121–135. [CrossRef]549. Bayer, P .E.; Golicz, A.A.; Scheben, A.; Batley, J.; Edwards, D. Plant Pan-Genomes are the new reference. Nat. Plants 2020 ,6,914–920. [CrossRef]550. Woodhouse, M.R.; Cannon, E.K.; Portwood, J.L.; Harper, L.C.; Gardiner, J.M.; Schaeffer, M.L.; Andorf, C.M. A Pan-Genomicapproach to genome databases using maize as a model system. BMC Plant Biol. 2021 ,21, 385. [CrossRef]551. Li, C.; Sun, B.; Li, Y.; Liu, C.; Wu, X.; Zhang, D.; Shi, Y.; Song, Y.; Buckler, E.S.; Zhang, Z.; et al. Numerous genetic loci identiﬁedfor drought tolerance in the maize nested association mapping populations. BMC Genom. 2016 ,17, 894. [CrossRef]552. Kaur, B.; Sandhu, K.S.; Kamal, R.; Kaur, K.; Singh, J.; Röder, M.S.; Muqaddasi, Q.H. Omics for the improvement of abiotic, biotic,and agronomic traits in major cereal crops: Applications, challenges, and prospects. Plants 2021 ,10, 1989. [CrossRef]553. Shou, H.; Bordallo, P .; Wang, K. Expression of the Nicotiana Protein Kinase (NPK1) enhanced drought tolerance in transgenicMaize. J. Exp. Bot. 2004 ,55, 1013–1019. [CrossRef]554. Nelson, D.E.; Repetti, P .P .; Adams, T.R.; Creelman, R.A.; Wu, J.; Warner, D.C.; Anstrom, D.C.; Bensen, R.J.; Castiglioni, P .P .;Donnarummo, M.G.; et al. Plant Nuclear Factor Y (NF-Y) B subunits confer drought tolerance and lead to improved corn yieldson water-limited acres. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007 ,104, 16450–16455. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 12053 50 of 50555. Huanca-Mamani, W.; Arias-Carrasco, R.; C árdenas-Ninasivincha, S.; Rojas-Herrera, M.; Sep úlveda-Hermosilla, G.; Caris-Maldonado, J.C.; Bast ías, E.; Maracaja-Coutinho, V . Long Non-Coding RNAs responsive to salt and boron stress in the hyper-aridLluteño Maize from Atacama Desert. Genes 2018 ,9, 170. [CrossRef]556. Liu, H.J.; Jian, L.; Xu, J.; Zhang, Q.; Zhang, M.; Jin, M.; Peng, Y.; Yan, J.; Han, B.; Liu, J.; et al. High-Throughput CRISPR/Cas9mutagenesis streamlines trait gene identiﬁcation in maize. Plant Cell 2020 ,32, 1397–1413. [CrossRef] [PubMed]557. Schwartz, C.; Lenderts, B.; Feigenbutz, L.; Barone, P .; Llaca, V .; Fengler, K.; Svitashev, S. CRISPR–Cas9-Mediated 75.5-Mb inversionin maize. Nat. Plants 2020 ,6, 1427–1431. [CrossRef]