Bio-organic soil amendment promotes the suppression ofRalstonia solanacearum by inducing changes in the functionalityand composition of rhizosphere bacterial communitiesXuhui Deng1,2,3, Na Zhang1,2, Yuchan Li1,2, Chengzhi Zhu1,2, Baoyuan Qu4,5, Hongjun Liu1,2,Rong Li1,2, Yang Bai4,5,6, Qirong Shen1,2and Joana Falcao Salles31Jiangsu Provincial Key Laboratory of Solid Organic Waste Utilization, Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation Center of Solid Organic Wastes, Education al Ministry Engineering Center ofResource-saving Fertilizers, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, Jiangsu, China;2Laboratory of Bio-interactions and Crop Health, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing210095, Jiangsu, China;3Microbial Ecology Cluster, Genomics Research in Ecology and Evolution in Nature, Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University o f Groningen,Groningen 9747AG, the Netherlands;4State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, The Innovative Academy of Seed Design, ChineseAcademy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China;5CAS-JIC Centre of Excellence for Plant and Microbial Science (CEPAMS), Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, ChineseAcademy of Sciences (CAS), Beijing 100101, China;6College of Advanced Agricultural Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100039, ChinaAuthor for correspondence:Rong LiEmail: lirong@njau.edu.cnReceived: 1 December 2021Accepted: 5 May 2022New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574doi: 10.1111/nph.18221Key words: function, invasion, Ralstoniasolanacearum , responsiveness, rhizospherebacteria, suppressiveness.Summary/C15Stimulating the development of soil suppressiveness against certain pathogens represents asustainable solution toward reducing pesticide use in agriculture. However, understanding thedynamics of suppressiveness and the mechanisms leading to pathogen control remain largelyelusive./C15Here, we investigated the mechanisms used by the rhizosphere microbiome induces bacte-rial wilt disease suppression in a long-term ﬁeld experiment where continuous application ofbio-organic fertilizers (BFs) triggered disease suppressiveness when compared to chemical fer-tilizer application. We further demonstrated in a glasshouse experiment that the suppressive-ness of the rhizosphere bacterial communities was triggered mainly by changes in communitycomposition rather than only by the abundance of the introduced biocontrol strain./C15Metagenomics approaches revealed that members of the families Sphingomonadaceae andXanthomonadaceae with the ability to produce secondary metabolites were enriched in theBF plant rhizosphere but only upon pathogen invasion. We experimentally validated thisobservation by inoculating bacterial isolates belonging to the families Sphingomonadaceaeand Xanthomonadaceae into conducive soil, which led to a signiﬁcant reduction in pathogenabundance and increase in nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene abundance./C15We conclude that priming of the soil microbiome with BF amendment fostered reactivebacterial communities in the rhizosphere of tomato plants in response to biotic disturbance.IntroductionThe soil microbiome is a silent ally for various ecosystem services,including the protection of plants against abiotic and bioticstresses (Bender et al.,2016 ). Suppressive soils offer microbiome-mediated protection for crop plants against soil-borne pathogeninfections (Schroth & Hancock, 1982 ; Mendes et al.,2011 ; Chaet al.,2016 ), contribute to reduced chemical pesticide applicationand promote sustainable agriculture. The mechanisms associatedwith disease suppression in soils include general suppression viacompetitive interactions of the overall soil microbiome and/orspeciﬁc suppression owing to direct antagonism and competitionwith speciﬁc group(s) of microorganisms such as Pseudomonas ,Flavobacterial and Streptomyces , which act against a speciﬁcpathogen (Raaijmakers & Mazzola, 2016 ; Kwak et al.,2018 ).Several agricultural practices are currently used to induce soilsuppressiveness, such as soil tillage, organic amendments andantagonistic agent application (Hoitink & Boehm, 1999 ; Peterset al.,2003 ; Haas & D /C19efago, 2005 ; Kinkel et al.,2011 ). Amongthese practices, disease suppression induced by organic amend-ments and biocontrol agents has been widely explored and shownto induce suppression through both general and speciﬁc soilmicrobiome driven mechanisms (Raaijmakers et al .,2009 ;Bonanomi et al.,2010 ). For instance, bio-organic fertilizer (BF),which is a combination of bio-control agents and mature com-post, has been indicated to control Fusarium wilt (Shenet al.,2015 ), Verticillium wilt (Lang et al.,2012 ) and bacterialwilt (Ding et al.,2013 ). These combinations of organic and bio-logical amendments modify the soil microbiome, thus promotinggeneral soil suppressiveness against soil-borne plant diseases1558 New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574 /C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation. www.newphytologist.comResearch 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenserather than direct pathogen inhibition (Fu et al.,2017 ; Xionget al.,2017a ; Tao et al.,2020 ). Interestingly, the suppressivenessinduced by BF can be transmitted to conducive soil, thus high-lighting the potential of this approach (Xiong et al.,2017b ).Although many reports have identiﬁed the soil suppression mech-anism in response to long-term crop monoculture (Mendeset al.,2011 ; Chapelle et al.,2016 ; Carri /C19onet al.,2019 ) or short-term agricultural practices (Deng et al.,2021 ), the mechanismthat promotes soil suppressiveness by long-term soil microbiomemanipulation via BF application is unknown. Understanding thechanges induced by BF on the microbiome in the bulk soil or inthe soil in close association with the plant, i.e. the rhizosphere,represents a key step in developing general approaches to pro-mote disease suppression.The rhizosphere is the infection court where pathogens estab-lish a parasitic relationship with plants. The rhizosphere micro-biome is assembled through dispersal, drift and speciation fromthe bulk microbiome and selection by plants (Dini-Andreote &Raaijmakers, 2018 ). Although bulk soils are reservoirs of themicrobiome, the success of a pathogen is inﬂuenced by the rhizo-sphere microﬂora (Raaijmakers et al .,2009 ; Berendsenet al.,2012 ).In situ studies tracking the abundance of pathogens,such as Ralstonia solanacearum , in the rhizosphere of suppressivesoil showed that the abundance of invasive pathogens is oftenlower than that in conducive soil (Wei et al.,2011 ). This lowabundance is associated with higher microbiome diversity (Gar-beva et al.,2004 ;H u et al.,2016 ), beneﬁcial microbes (Kwaket al.,2018 ), and stronger microbial interactions in the suppres-sive rhizosphere (Mendes et al.,2018 ). However, the develop-ment of the rhizosphere microbiome over time as well as thefunctional changes of the rhizosphere microbiome in response topractices that induce disease suppression remain less clear. Unrav-eling the compositional and functional dynamics of the rhizo-sphere microbiome is relevant in the context of understandingthe (disease-induced) recruitment of beneﬁcial microbes andfunctions associated with plant health in response to invasion bybacterial pathogens.The purpose of this study was to assess the mechanismsthrough which the composition and functionality of the residentbacterial communities associated with the rhizosphere of tomatoplants, grown under conducive or suppressive soil conditions,impact a single model pathogen, R. solanacearum . We ﬁrst inves-tigated the soil microbiome of a ﬁeld with a low incidence ofbacteria-induced tomato wilt disease, which was induced by thecontinuous application of BF and compared this microbiomewith those from ﬁelds that received organic fertilizer (OF) andchemical fertilizer (CF) applications. Based on these results wehypothesized that long-term application of BF will induce soilsuppressiveness through microbiome manipulation, but that sup-pression occurs via mechanisms that are associated with the rhizo-sphere rather than the bulk soil bacterial community. To addressthis hypothesis, we started by disentangling the effect of soilnutrients from the microbiome because pathogen suppressivenesscan be inﬂuenced by soil properties (Duffy et al.,1997 ). We per-formed a microcosm experiment in which tomato plants weregrown in pots with artiﬁcial soils harboring the microbiomesfrom BF and CF. Once root colonization by the BF or CF micro-biome had taken place, the seedlings were transferred to new potswith germ-free substrate and subsequently inoculated with orwithout R. solanacearum . We then followed the development ofpathogens as well as shifts in the composition, diversity and func-tion of bacterial communities associated with the tomato rhizo-sphere soil in response to pathogen inoculation. This approachallowed us to identify potential key players in rhizosphere sup-pressiveness, which were then isolated and further tested in vivoto conﬁrm their activity. Overall, we show that the dynamics ofthe rhizosphere microbiome, and associated mechanisms drivedisease suppression in the rhizosphere manipulated by the appli-cation of BF.Materials and MethodsDescription of the long-term bio-organic amendment ﬁeldexperiment descriptionThe long-term ﬁeld trial was performed in Hengxi town in Nan-jing, Jiangsu Province (32 °020N, 118 °500E) which has a subtrop-ical monsoon climate with average annual temperature andprecipitation of 15.4 °C and 1106 mm, respectively. The continu-ous trial started in March 2013 and lasted for two seasons eachyear. Three treatments of the ﬁeld experiment were selected forthis study: CF: 120 kg ha/C01nitrogen (N), 180 kg ha/C01phospho-rus (P) and 120 kg ha/C01potassium (K) mineral fertilizers wereapplied to the soil in this season; OF: 7500 kg ha/C01organic fertil-izer (1.75% N, 0.82% P and 1.42% K in 2018) was applied; BF:7500 kg ha/C01bio-organic fertilizer (1.85% N, 0.80% P and1.46% K in 2018) was applied. In addition, the nutrient differ-ences among fertilizers applied to each treatment were compen-sated using mineral fertilizers as necessary. Each treatment hadthree independent replicate plots (long 9wide =2m94 m),and each replicate contained 40 tomato plants ( Solanum lycoper-sicum ). The tomato variety used in this experiment was a kind ofcommercial cultivar ‘Shi Ji Hong Guan’, which is one of the earlyripening tomato cultivars with round, large, red fruit. The BFwas produced by inoculating 5% (v/DW) Bacillus amyloliquefa-ciens T-5 (Tan et al.,2013 ), which was isolated in our laboratory,into an organic mixture of rapeseed meal and chicken manure(DW/DW =1 : 4) compost and then fermented for 7 d. The OFwas produced using an identical process to the BF but withoutbacterial inoculation. On the 40thday after transplanting, theplant height and stem diameter (taken at the oldest leaf position)of eight random plants from each plot were recorded. A bioassayfor disease incidence was performed during the harvest seasonbased on observations of typical wilt symptoms, including necro-sis and leaf drooping. The disease incidence in this study was cal-culated by counting the number of tomato plants with bacterialwilt among the total number of tomato plants in each plot. Onevalue was obtained from each plot; thus, each treatment had threedisease incidence replicates.Soil samples from these treatments were collected during theharvest season in June 2018 (Fig. 1a). For bulk soil sample collec-tion, soil cores at depths of 0 –15 cm from ﬁve points ( c. 500 g/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1559 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseFig. 1 Experimental ﬂow for this study. (a) Long-term ﬁeld experiment starting in 2013. Bulk and rhizosphere soils were sampled in June 2018 for thisstudy; (b) procedure for the pot experiment. Because the organic fertilizer (OF) amendment did not show a signiﬁcantly lower disease incidence than t hechemical fertilizer (CF) treatment, the soil with long-term bio-organic fertilizer (BF) application and CF were selected for the pot experiment; (c ) isolation ofrhizosphere bacteria and veriﬁcation of their suppressiveness. The isolate suppression of Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae was tested thr ougha coculture ( in vitro ) and a reinoculation pot ( in vivo ) experiment. Rs, abbreviation of Ralstonia solanacearum .n, number of replicates per treatment.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1560 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensefrom each point) were collected after removing the plants in eachplot to form a composite sample as one replicate during the har-vest season (Fig. 1a). All bulk soil samples from each replicatewere subsequently individually mixed and sifted through a 2-mmsieve to homogenize the soil. Samples were stored at /C080°C forDNA extraction. For the rhizosphere samples, three tomato rootswere collected from the points of each plot and vigorously shakento remove excess soil (Fig. 1a). Then, the soil adhering to theroots (rhizosphere soil) was collected by sterile phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). The rhizosphere soil samples wereobtained after centrifugation at 10 000 gfor 10 min, and storedat/C080°C for soil DNA extraction. Thus, three bulk and threerhizosphere soil samples were collected for each treatment.Bioassay to assess the disease suppressiveness of soilsBecause the OF treatment did not show a signiﬁcant bacterialwilt suppression effect compared with the CF treatment, soilsfrom the BF and CF treatments were selected for the subsequentmicrocosm experiment to explore the potential suppressionmechanism. First, we assessed the disease suppressiveness of BFsoils according to a previously described protocol (Mendeset al.,2011 ) (Fig. 1). In brief, soils from the CF and BF treat-ments in the ﬁeld were collected. Five treatments were designedas follows: BF, soil from the BF treatment; CF, soil from the CFtreatment; CF +SBF, mix of 90% CF soil and 10% 121 °C auto-claved BF soil (w/w); CF +50BF mix of 90% CF soil and 10%50°C heat-treated (1 h) BF soil (w/w); and CF +BF, mix of 90%CF soil and 10% BF soil (w/w). Tomato seeds were surface steril-ized by ethanol (75%) and bleach (3%), and subsequently germi-nated in culture dishes. A single germinated seed was transferredto a sterilized 200 ml pot containing 200 g of soil. For each soiltreatment, three replicates were used in a completely randomizedexperimental design, and each replicate contained 10 pots.Seedlings were grown in a growth room under 16 h : 8 h,light : dark conditions at 28 °C for 30 d. Pots were watered withhalf-strength Hoagland every 3 d and with deionized water whenneeded. Then, all pots were inoculated with R. solanacearumQLRs-1115 (Wei et al.,2011 ) at a concentration of 106cellsml/C01artiﬁcial soil for each pot. Finally, the seedlings were grownto record the disease incidence.Ralstonia solanacearum invasion pot experimentdescriptionSubsequently, a microcosm pot experiment was carried out tofocus on the dynamics of the soil microbiome in the rhizospheremicrobiome under pathogen invasion. Soil cores at depths of0–20 cm from nine points in each plot of CF and BF were col-lected to form the soil inoculum. Tomato seeds were surface ster-ilized by ethanol (75%) and bleach (3%), and subsequentlygerminated in culture dishes that contained sterile absorbentpaper and deionized water. We assumed that the seed endophyticcommunity was negligible compared to the soil community aspreviously shown (Lundberg et al.,2012 ; Tkacz et al.,2015 ). Thetomato variety used in this and all subsequent pot experimentswas a kind of commercial cultivar ‘Hezuo 903’, which is also akind of early ripening tomato cultivar with round, large, red fruit.The artiﬁcial soil in this study was well mixed vermiculite andquartz sand (horticultural grade; v/v, 2 : 1). All artiﬁcial soil wasautoclaved twice at 121 °C for 60 min. BF and CF soil inoculawere added to the sterile artiﬁcial soil and mixed well (v/v, 1 : 9)as growth substrates (Fig. 1b). Afterward, a single germinatedseed was transferred to a sterilized 200 ml pot containing 200 mlof the growth substrates, and 108 pots were allotted to each typeof artiﬁcial soil. Seedlings were grown in a growth room under16 h : 8 h, light : dark conditions at 28 °C for 30 d. The pots werewatered with half-strength Hoagland every 3 d and with deion-ized water when needed. Then, the seedlings that contained dif-ferent rhizospheres were transplanted to new sterile potscontaining sterile artiﬁcial soil. Among these pots, half were inoc-ulated with R. solanacearum QLRs-1115 at a concentration of106cells ml/C01artiﬁcial soil for each pot. Finally, the seedlings innew pots were grown for 10 d (Fig. 1b).Growth substrates containing each type of soil at the initialtime, were collected into 2 ml sterilized microcentrifuge tubesand used as the ‘Bulk’ samples, which contained two treatments:Bulk_BF (sterile artiﬁcial soil mixed with BF soil inoculum) andBulk_CF (sterile artiﬁcial soil mixed with CF soil inoculum).Rhizosphere samples before transplanting and R. solanacearuminoculants were deﬁned as ‘RhT0’, which contained two treat-ments: RhT0_BF (rhizosphere derived from the BF soil micro-biome) and RhT0_CF (rhizosphere derived from the CF soilmicrobiome). Ten days after pathogen inoculation, the sampleswere deﬁned as ‘RhT10’, which contained four treatments:RhT10_BF (BF rhizosphere without R. solanacearum inocula-tion), RhT10_BF +Rs (BF rhizosphere with R. solanacearuminoculation), RhT10_CF (CF rhizosphere without R.solanacearum inoculation) and RhT10_CF +Rs (CF rhizospherewith R. solanacearum inoculation). Each treatment at each timepoint consisted of eight independent replicates (only healthyplants were sampled). The roots of each replicate from RhT0 andRhT10 were collected from each plot and vigorously shaken toremove excess soil. The rhizosphere soils from 3 g of roots fromeach sample were thoroughly washed in 30 ml sterile PBS, driedon sterilized 0.45 micron membrane ﬁlters, and transferred intosterilized 5 ml tubes. The samples were subsequently frozen inliquid nitrogen and stored at /C080°C until the soil DNA wasextracted (Fig. 1b).DNA extraction and quantitative polymerase chain reaction(qPCR) assayField soil samples and Bulk, RhT0 and RhT10 samples from thepot experiments were chosen for subsequent DNA extractionusing PowerSoil Soil DNA Isolation Kits (MoBio LaboratoriesInc., Carlsbad, CA, USA) following the manufacturer’s protocol.The concentration and quality of the DNA were determinedusing a NanoDrop 2000 spectrophotometer (Thermo Scientiﬁc,Wilmington, NC, USA). The abundance of R. solanacearum wasquantiﬁed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR)with speciﬁc primers (forward, 50-GAA CGC CAA CGG TGC/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1561 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseGAA CT-30; reverse, 50-GGC GGC CTT CAG GGA GGT C-30) to target the ﬂiC gene that codes the ﬂagellum subunit(Sch€onfeld et al.,2003 ). The abundance of Bacillus was quanti-ﬁed by qPCR with speciﬁc primers (forward, 50-ATG TTAGCG GCG GAC GGG TGA G-30; reverse, 50-AAG TTC CCCAGT TTC CAA TGA CC-30) (Mori et al.,2004 ). The qPCRanalysis was performed with a qTOWER 2.2 system from Ana-lytik Jena (Jena, Germany) using SYBR green I ﬂuorescent dyedetection in 20 ll volumes, which contained 2 ll of template,10ll of SYBR Premix Ex Taq (TaKaRa Bio Inc., Shiga, Japan),and 0.4 ll of both forward and reverse primers (10 lM each) in96-well plates. All qPCRs were performed using the standardtemperature proﬁle (Hu et al.,2016 ). Each sample was analyzedin three replicates, and the results were expressed as log10values(target copy number per gram soil in the Bulk treatments and perplant root in the RhT0 and RhT10 treatments).Illumina MiSeq sequencingThe DNA extracted from the soil was used to amplify andsequence the bacterial 16S rRNA gene which targeted the variableV4–V5 region (forward primer, 515F-50-GTG CCA GCMGCC GCG GTA A-30; reverse primer 907R-50-CCG TCA ATTCMT TTR AGT TT-30). Amplicons were sequenced based onthe Illumina MiSeq platform at Personal Biotechnology Co. Ltd,Shanghai, China. The operational taxonomic unit (OTU) tablewas built using the UPARSE pipeline (Edgar, 2013 ). Brieﬂy, readswere truncated at 200 bp and quality-ﬁltered using a maximumexpected error of 0.5. After discarding replicates and singletons,we assigned the remaining reads to OTUs with a threshold of97% identity. For the ﬁeld experiment, this step generated a 16SrRNA OTU table of 12 samples 94464 OTUs (309 241 reads).The number of high-quality sequences per sample was 9752 –36 572. For the pot experiments, this step generated a 16S rRNAOTU table of 64 samples 96354 OTUs (1541 951 reads). Thenumber of high-quality sequences per sample was 16 356 –36 189. Finally, bacterial representative sequences were searchedthrough the RDP classiﬁer (Wang et al.,2007 ) with a conﬁdencethreshold of 80%. To obtain an equivalent sequencing depth forfurther bacterial community analysis, each sample was rareﬁed tothe smallest sample size (9752 for ﬁeld experiments and 16 356sequences for pot experiments) in R through the packageGU-NIFRAC (Function: Rarefy).Bioinformatics analysis of 16S rRNA gene proﬁlingAlpha diversity indicators such as richness (Sobs), diversity(Shannon) and phylogenetic diversity (PD) were determined foreach sample. The richness and diversity of rareﬁed OTUs werecalculated using theVEGAN (function: diversity) package and thephylogenetic diversity was calculated by the PICANTE (function:pd) package in R (v.3.5.1 for Windows). The weighted andunweighted UniFrac distances between treatments were calcu-lated using the R packageGUNIFRAC and presented based on aprincipal coordinate analysis (PCoA) through the GGPLOT 2 pack-age to visualize the differences in microbial communitycomposition. Differences in community structure between treat-ments were tested using permutational multivariate analysis ofvariance (PERMANOVA), which was performed using the RpackageVEGAN (function: adonis) with 9999 permutations. Arandom forest model was calculated by the R package RANDOM-FOREST to select important bacteria that correlated with thepathogen density. The relative abundance of the microbiomebetween inoculated and uninoculated rhizospheres as determinedby DESEQ2 (function: DESeq) package through the Wald signiﬁ-cance tests and presented in a volcano diagram through the GG-PLOT2 package. For other statistical analyses, two-sample Mann –Whitney U-tests, Spearman correlations and Pearson correlationswere calculated in IBM S PSS23.0 (Armonk, NY, USA).To evaluate the effects of the prior microbiome speciﬁcity andR. solanacearum inoculation, four networks were individuallyconstructed for each treatment of RhT10. The OTU tables foreach dataset were restricted to rareﬁed OTUs that were present inat least six samples and comprised ≥14 reads (relative abundance≥0.01% in each treatment). For each table, Spearman correlationscores were calculated in the MENAonline pipeline (http://ieg4.rccc.ou.edu/mena/).Metagenome analysisThree random DNA samples from each treatment of RhT10(394=12 samples) were sequenced on the Illumina HiSeq2500 platform using the PE150 sequencing strategy, with anaverage of 10 Gb per sample. All raw data were trimmed bythe TRIMMOMATIC program (LEADING:3, TRAILING:3,SLIDINGWINDOW:5:20, MINLEN:50), which generateddata containing clean reads that were subsequently alignedagainst the tomato genome to remove host-associated sequencecontamination. The MEGAHIT program (https://github.com/voutcn/megahit, k-min: 35, k-max: 95 and k-step: 20) was usedto assemble the scaftigs ( ≥500 bp); then, the Prodigal program(https://github.com/hyattpd/Prodigal) was used to predict theopen reading frame (ORF) ( ≥90 bp). The gene catalog (unige-nes) was obtained after clustering through the LINCLUST program(-e 0.001--min-seq-id 0.9 -c 0.80), and the longest sequence wasused as the representative sequence for each cluster (Steinegger &S€oding, 2018 ). The gene depth and relative abundance werecalculated with the BBMAPprogram by comparing clean readswith the gene catalog. Finally, unigenes were annotated byBLASTP (v.2.2.31 +, http://blast.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Blast.cgi) in theNational Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) for tax-onomy ( e-value ≤0.0001) and D IAMOND in Kyoto Encyclopediaof Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and EGGNOG for function(e-value ≤0.0001). Furthermore, contigs >5 kb were processedwith A NTISMASH v.3.0 with default parameters (Weberet al.,2015 ) to analyze the secondary metabolism ability.Isolation and identiﬁcation of culturable rhizospherebacterial isolatesHigh-throughput isolation and identiﬁcation of the isolates wereperformed according to previously described protocols (BaiNew Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1562 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseet al.,2015 ; Zhang et al.,2019 ,2021 ). In brief, tomato rootsfrom ‘RhT10’ were washed in PBS on a shaking platform for30 min at 170 rpm. For limiting dilution, homogenized rhizo-sphere soils were sedimented for 15 min and the supernatant wasempirically diluted, distributed and cultivated in 96-well micro-liter plates that had 200 ml tryptic soy broth (TSB) medium ineach well. After 1 wk of incubation, 3299 wells were turbid andthe isolates were subsequently stored in 30% glycerol at /C080°C.Then, a two-step barcoded PCR protocol in combination withIllumina HiSeq was adopted to deﬁne the sequences of bacterial16S rRNA genes of rhizosphere bacteria. After annotating thesequences of the last step, cultivated bacteria were clustered intoOTUs with >99% 16S rRNA gene similarity. Representative iso-lates of each unique OTU identiﬁed from cultivated bacteriawere puriﬁed by tryptic soy agar (TSA) medium before usingindividual colonies for validation by Sanger sequencing with 27Fand 1492R primers and stored in 30% glycerol at /C080°C. After-ward, the sequences were clustered into OTUs with >99% 16SrRNA gene similarity and submitted to the RDP database for tax-onomic identiﬁcation. Finally, 163 isolates were obtained in thisstep. The phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequenceswas performed using MEGAv.7.0.26 and visualized with ITOL(Fig. 1c).Disease suppression of responsive isolates and consortiaSphingomonadaceae ( Sphingomonas ) and Xanthomonadaceae(Luteimonas ,Lysobacter ,Pseudoxanthomonas ,a n d Stenotrophomonas )isolates were selected to test the metagenomics indications. Twoisolates ( Rhizobium sp. and Devosia sp., which were response taxain CF) were selected as negative controls, and B. amyloliquefaciensT-5 was used as a positive control. In vitro pathogen suppressionwas compared through coculture assays consisting of mCherry-tagged R. solanacearum and one of the targeted strains. Brieﬂy, 20ll of nutrient broth (NB) medium with R. solanacearum (densitywas adjusted to 106cells ml/C01) and each targeted strain (densitywas adjusted to 106cells ml/C01) was added to 140 ll of fresh nutri-ent broth medium in 96-well plates. Each treatment was replicatedsix times. After 24 h of growth at 30 °C, the R. solanacearum den-sity was measured as the red mCherry protein ﬂuorescence inten-sity (excitation: 587 nm, emission: 610 nm) with a SpectraMaxM5 plate reader (Fig. 1c).Tomato seedlings were grown in 200-ml pots with c. 200 ml ofgrowth substrates (described earlier) containing 10% CF soils.Twenty days after planting, the seedlings were inoculated withpotential biocontrol agents. Isolates were grown in 100 ml of TSBfor 2 d at 28 °C on a rotary shaker at 170 rpm. The liquid cultureof each isolate was centrifuged, washed and suspended in sterile10 mM magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) solution. Single isolate andmicrobial consortia suspensions were inoculated into pots with aninitial density of 107cells ml/C01growth substrates, and 10 mMMgSO 4solution inoculation pots were used as a control. Eachtreatment contained 30 plants. For the microbial consortia sus-pension, all isolates at a cell density of 108cells ml/C01were mixedin a 1 : 1 ratio. Approximately 20 ml of the suspension was inocu-lated on the growth medium surface of each pot on average. After10 d, the pots were inoculated with R. solanacearum QLRs-1115cells, and the ﬁnal concentration of each pot was 106cells ml/C01substrate. Rhizosphere samples were collected 10 d after thepathogen inoculation. All the treatments had six replicates. Theabundances of the pathogen, nonribosomal peptide synthetase(NRPS; A3F, 50-GCS TAC SYS ATS TAC ACS TCS GG-30;A7R, 50-SAS GTC VCC SGT SCG GTA-30) (Ayuso-Sacido &Genilloud, 2005 ) and type-I modular polyketide synthase (PKS;degKS2F, 50-GCI ATG GAY CCI CAR CAR MG IVT-30;degKS2R, 50-GTI CCI GTI CCR TGI SCY TCI AC-30)(Schirmer et al.,2005 ) were determined through qPCR (Fig. 1c).These two primer pairs amplify a variety of biosynthetic geneclusters (BGCs) belonging to NRPS and type-I PKS. Quantita-tive PCRs for NRPS and PKS were performed using the tempera-ture proﬁles provided in Zhao et al.(2018 ) and Charlop-Powerset al.(2014 ), respectively (Fig. 1c).ResultsDisease control trait in the ﬁeld experiment via long-termbio-organic amendmentAfter 11 seasons of continuous fertilization (Fig. 1a), the treat-ment with long-term application of BF had a signiﬁcantly lowertomato bacterial wilt disease incidence than the inorganic treat-ment (CF). Although the long-term application of OF alsoresulted in a lower disease incidence than CF, the difference wasnot signiﬁcant (Fig. 2a). BF and OF did not show any signiﬁcantplant growth promoting effect relative to CF (Supporting Infor-mation Fig. S1a,b). The abundance of R. solanacearum in the rhi-zosphere showed similar trends as the disease incidence (Fig. 2b),although the pathogen quantity in the bulk soil among the treat-ments did not show signiﬁcant differences. The abundance ofBacillus in the rhizosphere showed a negative correlation trend,albeit not a signiﬁcant trend, with the pathogen density (Fig. S1c,d). The sequencing of the bacterial communities associated withbulk and rhizosphere soils revealed no signiﬁcant difference indiversity among all treatments (Fig. 2c), although the bacterialcomposition among treatments was signiﬁcantly different(Fig. 2d). Further random forest analysis showed that Xan-thomonadaceae, Sphingomonadaceae, Thermomicrobiaceae,Sphingobacteriaceae, and Ignavibacteriaceae were the top ﬁvefamilies that potentially contributed to the pathogen abundancein the rhizosphere (Fig. 2e).Community shift of rhizosphere bacteria in the potexperiment under pathogen invasionAfter assessing the disease suppressiveness of BF soil, our resultsshowed that suppressiveness was driven by its microbiome andcould be transfered to conducive soil (Fig. 3). To understand theprocess by which rhizosphere bacteria suppress R. solanacearuminvasion, we directly inoculated R. solanacearum into the tomatorhizosphere and subsequently sequenced the rhizosphere bacterialcommunity (Fig. 1b). Prior to invasion, we observed no signiﬁ-cant differences in R. solanacearum abundance in the bulk soil/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1563 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseand rhizosphere between the CF and BF treatments. Similar tothe ﬁeld trial, R. solanacearum invasion showed signiﬁcant differ-ences in disease incidence between the CF and BF treatments(Fig. 4a). As expected, invasion increased the R. solanacearumabundance in the tomato rhizosphere of both the BF and CFcommunities; however, the abundance in the BF was signiﬁcantlylower than that in the CF, indicating suppressiveness. Interest-ingly, although no obvious difference in R. solanacearum abun-dance was detected in the tomato rhizosphere between the CFand BF treatments before pathogen inoculation, the BF rhizo-sphere had a lower abundance of R. solanacearum than the CFrhizosphere after 10 d of growth (Fig. 4b). For Bacillus , pathogeninvasion signiﬁcantly increased its abundance in the rhizosphere.Although no signiﬁcant difference between BF and CF wasobserved, higher Bacillus densities were observed in BF (Fig. S2b,c). The bacterial PD did not show a signiﬁcant difference in thebulk and rhizosphere soils between the CF and BF treatmentsbefore invasion, but inoculation only increased the diversity inFig. 2 Results of the long-term ﬁeld experiment. (a) Disease incidence of bacterial wilt disease (mean /C6SE); (b) abundance of Ralstonia solanacearum inbulk and rhizosphere soil (mean /C6SE); (c) phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial community (mean /C6SE); (d) principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) of thebacterial community based on weighted UniFrac distance ( Pvalues were obtained from the PERMANOVA); (e) 20 most important bacteria at the familylevel that correlated with the pathogen density based on the random forest model. The heatmap shows the rvalue between bacteria and R. solanacearumin the rhizosphere based on Spearman correlation. Chemical fertilizer (CF): soil with the long-term application of chemical fertilizer; organic fe rtilizer (OF):soil with the long-term application of organic fertilizer; bio-organic fertilizer (BF): soil with the long-term application of bio-organic fertil izer. Gray dot repre-sents value of each replicate. Different letters indicate signiﬁcant differences among the four treatments as deﬁned by Tukey’s test ( P≤0.05). ‘ns’ indicatesthere was no signiﬁcant difference among treatments as deﬁned by ANOVA ( P>0.05). ‘%IncMSE’ indicates the percentage increase in the mean squareerror. A larger %IncMSE value corresponds to greater inﬂuence of the characteristic variable on the target.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1564 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensethe BF. Although the rhizosphere PD responded with pathogeninvasion, on the 10thday after R. solanacearum inoculation, weobserved no signiﬁcant difference between BF and CF inoculatedwith R. solanacearum (Fig. 4c).PCoA based on weighted and unweighted UniFrac distancesshowed that the largest variations in microbial community com-position were observed with time along the ﬁrst PCoA axis(Figs S3a,S4b). Then, the variations among community originswere observed along the second PCoA axis based on unweightedUniFrac distances (Fig. S3a). To evaluate the effect of invasion,we focused on the 10thday after R. solanacearum inoculation,which revealed that both community origin and inoculationaffected tomato rhizosphere bacterial composition (Figs 4d,S3c).However, the distance shift under pathogen inoculation in theBF rhizosphere bacterial communities was greater than that inthe CF rhizosphere bacterial communities, and signiﬁcantresponses were only observed in the BF rhizosphere (Tables S1,S2). Moreover, the response of the community was negativelycorrelated with rhizosphere pathogen survival (Table S3). Vol-cano plots showed a greater number of taxa with abundancechanges under inoculation conditions in the BF rhizosphere thanin the CF rhizosphere (Fig. 4e). In addition, the network analysisshowed that R. solanacearum invasion increased the number ofnodes and edges in both the BF and CF rhizosphere bacterialcommunities; however, greater changes were observed in the BFcommunity (Fig. 4f). Further taxonomic analysis showed that theresponse of most OTUs was enriched in BF +Rs instead ofCF+Rs under pathogen inoculation (Fig. S4a). Although the rel-ative abundances of these taxa were similar between BF and CFbefore R. solanacearum inoculation, they sharply increased afterinvasion in BF only (Fig. S4b). In accordance with the resultsfrom the ﬁeld experiment, genera associated with the familiesXanthomonadaceae and Sphingomonadaceae were identiﬁed asresponsive taxa (Table S4). Random forest analysis also indicatedthat these two families were potentially important in suppressingR. solanacearum in the rhizosphere (Fig. 4g).Functional response of rhizosphere bacteria under R.solanacearum invasionTo reveal how the shifts in microbial composition reﬂected func-tional changes, we sequenced the whole metagenomes of severalsamples (Fig. 1b). The genes retrieved from metagenome datawere annotated through the eggNOG and KEGG databases. Ourresults showed that the functional and community responses ofBF were stronger than those of CF (Fig. S5), Thus corroboratingthe results based on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing(Fig. 4). Speciﬁcally, the pathways in the rhizosphere of BF +Rswere distinct from those in the other treatments, which clusteredtogether (Fig. 5a,b). The direction of the functional changes wassimilar in both the BF and CF rhizospheres under invasion,although the change scale was more drastic in BF than CFFig. 3 Assessment of disease suppressiveness from bio-organic fertilizer (BF) soils. (a) Experimental ﬂow for assessing the disease suppressiveness of s oils;(b) disease incidence (mean /C6SE) of seedlings in BF soil (BF), chemical fertilizer (CF) soil, CF soil amended with 10% (w/w) BF soil (CF +BF) or BF soil heat-treated at 50 °C (CF +50BF) or by autoclave (CF +SBF). Gray dot represents value of each replicate. Different letters indicate signiﬁcant differences amongthe four treatments as deﬁned by Tukey’s test ( P≤0.05)./C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1565 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseFig. 4 Microbial community traits of rhizosphere bacteria under Ralstonia solanacearum invasion. (a) Bacterial wilt disease incidence at the 10thday afterpathogen inoculation (mean /C6SE); (b) abundance of R. solanacearum and (c) phylogenetic diversity of the bacterial community (mean /C6SE); (d) principalcoordinate analysis (PCoA) of the bacterial community in RhT10 based on the weighted UniFrac distance. The Pvalues were from PERMANOVA, ‘origin’represents the bacterial community from bio-organic fertilizer (BF) or chemical fertilizer (CF) soils, and ‘invasion’ represents whether the rhiz osphere wasinoculated with pathogen; (e) volcano diagram of responsive bacterial operational taxonomic unit (OTUs) in the BF and CF with R. solanacearum inocula-tion in RhT10; (f) network of the bacterial community in RhT10; (g) 20 most-important bacteria at the family level that correlated with the pathogen de n-sity based on the random forest model, and the box plot showed the relative abundance of the family in rhizosphere. Bulk: initial mixed material beforeplanting; RhT0: rhizosphere before R. solanacearum inoculation; RhT10: rhizosphere after R. solanacearum inoculation. ‘ –Rs’ indicates that the rhizospheremicrobiome was not inoculated with R. solanacearum ;‘+Rs’ indicates that the rhizosphere microbiome was inoculated with R. solanacearum . Gray dot rep-resents value of each replicate. The asterisks indicate signiﬁcant differences (Mann –Whitney U-test, **,P≤0.01). ‘ns’ indicates there was no signiﬁcant dif-ference (Mann –Whitney U-test, P>0.05). Different letters indicate signiﬁcant differences among the four treatments as deﬁned by Tukey’s test ( P≤0.05).‘%IncMSE’ indicates the percentage increase in the mean square error. A larger value of %IncMSE corresponds to a greater inﬂuence of the characterist icvariable on the target. Box plot display the ﬁrst and third quartile, with the horizontal bar at the median and whiskers showing the most extreme data po int,which is no more than 1.5 times the interquartile range from the box.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1566 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseFig. 5 Functional response of rhizosphere bacterial communities after 10 d of Ralstonia solanacearum invasion, which was determined by shotgunmetagenome sequencing of chemical fertilizer (CF) and bio-organic fertilizer (BF) rhizosphere microbiomes, in the presence or absence of R. solanacearum .(a) Gene abundances based on the eggNOG database: relative abundance of the reads over all samples, in percentage; fold change in relation to the pres-ence or absence of the pathogen; and heatmap of each pathway, which indicates their relative abundance according to the treatment; (b) gene abun-dances based on the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database: relative abundance of the reads over all samples, in percentage; foldchange in relation to the presence or absence of the pathogen; and heatmap of each pathway, which indicates their relative abundance according to thetreatment. The heatmap scale ranges from /C01.5 to 1.5 (blue to red). CF /C0Rs, CF rhizosphere bacterial community without R. solanacearum invasion; BF /C0Rs, BF rhizosphere bacterial community without R. solanacearum invasion; CF +Rs, CF rhizosphere bacterial community with R. solanacearum invasion;BF+Rs, BF rhizosphere bacterial community with R. solanacearum invasion. Asterisk indicates a signiﬁcant enrichment in the BF +Rs rhizosphere comparedwith that in CF +Rs (Mann –Whitney U-test, *,P≤0.05). The hash symbol indicates a signiﬁcant change in the +Rs rhizosphere compared to its correspond-ing/C0Rs rhizosphere (Mann –Whitney U-test,#,P≤0.05)./C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1567 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License(Fig. 5a,b). Among these pathways, eight (eggNOG) and 10(KEGG) pathways were signiﬁcantly enriched (Mann –WhitneyU-test, P≤0.05) in the rhizosphere of BF +Rs compared withCF+Rs, including the post-translational modiﬁcation, defensemechanisms and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites. A furthersecondary metabolite analysis (A NTISMASH ) also showed thatNRPS, type-1 PKS and furan were signiﬁcantly enriched in therhizosphere under BF +Rs compared to CF +Rs (Fig. S6).Moreover, similar to the indications described in the ﬁeldexperiment and 16S rRNA gene sequencing data of the potexperiment (Figs 2e,3g; Table S4), the taxonomy analysis basedon metagenome data showed that Sphingomonadaceae and Xan-thomonadaceae were the most abundant responsive taxa in theBF rhizosphere after pathogen invasion (Fig. S7). Further analysisalso showed that enriched functions such as secondary metabolitebiosynthesis and defense mechanisms, were associated with theincreases in Sphingomonadaceae, Xanthomonadaceae, Opitu-taceae, and/or Bradyrhizobiaceae (Figs 6a,S8). Regarding themost abundant responsive taxa of Sphingomonadaceae and Xan-thomonadaceae (Fig. 6b), the relative abundances of Dyella ,Luteibacer ,Luteimonas ,Lysobacter ,Novosphingobium ,Pseudoxan-thomonas ,Rhodanobacter ,Rudaea ,Sandarakinorhabdus ,Sphin-gomonas ,Stenotrophomonas andXanthomonas in the rhizosphereof BF +Rs were signiﬁcantly (Mann –Whitney U-test, P≤0.05)higher than those in the other treatments (Fig. 6c), which indi-cates that the response of these taxa may contribute to the sup-pression function toward R. solanacearum invasion.Pathogen suppressiveness of the responsive taxaTo verify the metagenomics analysis results, 163 different cultur-able strains were isolated from the seedling rhizosphere (Fig. S9).From those, a pool of potential functional isolates of Sphin-gomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae composed of seven Sph-ingomonas strains, one Luteimonas strain, three Lysobacter strains,three Pseudoxanthomonas strains and two Stenotrophomonasstrains, as well as the negative control strains Rhizobium sp. andDevosia sp. and positive control strain Bacillus T-5, were testedin vitro and in vivo to determine their ability to suppresspathogens (Fig. 1c). The coculture results showed that most Xan-thomonadaceae strains and Bacillus T-5 induced R. solanacearumsuppression rather than Sphingomonadaceae strains, Rhizobiumsp. and Devosia sp. (Fig. S10a). The in vivo results showed thatthree of seven Sphingomonas strains, all Xanthomonadaceaestrains, Bacillus T-5 and the synthetic community signiﬁcantlycontrolled bacterial wilt (Fig. 7a).We further used qPCR targeting the NRPS and type-I PKSgenes to quantify their potential role in disease suppressionafter the inoculation of bacterial isolates. We observed that theNRPS genes were enriched in the tomato rhizosphere after theinoculation of most isolates and the type-I PKS genes were alsoenriched in some Sphingomonas ,Pseudoxanthomonas andStenotrophomonas inoculation treatments (Fig. S11). Further-more, the NRPS gene density, but not the type-I PKS genedensity, was signiﬁcantly negatively correlated with the abun-dance of pathogens (Fig. 7b).DiscussionIntensive agricultural production systems are often associatedwith high disease incidence, which leads to a severe reduction inplant productivity. Improving natural soil suppressiveness is animportant strategy to reduce disease incidence and pesticide usewhile maintaining plant health and agricultural production.While disentangling the mechanisms that drive suppression isimportant for promoting pathogen control, their identiﬁcation isoften blurred by confounding factors, such as soil properties.Moreover, these mechanisms are quite diverse, ranging fromresource competition to antibiosis, which can act directly, such asby reducing the pathogen load, and indirectly, such as by inﬂu-encing the rhizosphere microbiome. In this case, the plants mayremain healthy despite the high pathogen load in the soil. In thisstudy, we aimed to understand the mechanisms through whichlong-term fertilization with bio-organics leads to soil suppressionagainst R. solanacearum . The results from the long-term ﬁeldexperiment showed that soil bacterial communities differ inresponse to fertilization, but that differences in pathogen densitywere observed only in the rhizosphere. By experimentally disen-tangling the effect of the rhizosphere from the bulk soil proper-ties, we showed that microbiome manipulation due to long-termfertilization led to shifts in the composition and functionality ofthe bacterial communities associated with the tomato rhizo-sphere. Speciﬁcally, metagenomics approaches revealed that anenrichment in Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae aswell as secondary metabolites contributed to the suppression abil-ity toward R. solanacearum invasion in the rhizosphere of tomatoplants. These responses were further validated by an experimentalapproach in which the inoculation of bacterial isolates belongingto Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae on conducivesoil signiﬁcantly reduced the pathogen abundance and increasedthe abundance of NRPS genes. Later, we decipher the mecha-nisms involved in the suppression of pathogenic bacteria by plac-ing our results in light of the bacterial composition, function anddynamics.Suppressiveness was achieved through rhizospheremicrobiome dynamics in response to bio-organic fertilizeramendmentContinuous cropping and CF application often decrease thediversity and biomass of the soil microbiome (Dick, 1992 ; Wanget al.,2018 ), thereby leading to the loss of soil function andincreasing the incidence of soil-borne diseases (Mendeset al.,2015 ). Many studies focused on counteracting disease inci-dence have reported that the application of OF can enhance gen-eral disease suppression by adding organic amendments with orwithout biocontrol agents (De Corato, 2020 ; Mawardaet al.,2020 ). Organic amendments are known for their ability toalleviate environmental stress (Park et al.,2011 ), induce speciﬁctaxa in the soil microbial community (Khodadad et al.,2011 )and broadly inﬂuence the soil microbiome (Hartmannet al.,2015 ;F uet al.,2017 ). In this study, we showed that diseasesuppression induced by long-term BF could be transferred toNew Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1568 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseFig. 6 Responsive rhizosphere bacterial families with Ralstonia solanacearum invasion based on metagenome sequencing. (a) Fifteen most-abundant bac-teria that contributed to ‘biosynthesis of other secondary metabolites’ of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and ‘Q_secondary metabo-lites biosynthesis, transport and catabolism’ of eggNOG (mean /C6SE). Only the family that was signiﬁcantly enriched in bio-organic fertilizer (BF) +Rs wasmarked by an asterisk ( *); (b) heatmap of the relative abundance for responsive rhizosphere bacterial families among all treatments. The box plot showsthe relative abundance of the family in the rhizosphere; (c) heatmap of the relative abundance for species in Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadacea eamong all treatments. The heatmap scale ranges from /C02 to 2 (blue to red). Asterisk indicates a signiﬁcant increase in the BF +Rs rhizosphere (Mann –Whit-neyU-test, *,P≤0.05). Box plot display the ﬁrst and third quartile, with the horizontal bar at the median and whiskers showing the most extreme datapoint, which is no more than 1.5 times the interquartile range from the box./C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1569 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseconducive soil and speculated that the long-term application ofBF could suppress soil-borne disease through both general andspeciﬁc suppression mechanisms.Our results reveal that the continuous application of BFamended with Bacillus species but not OF alone can hinder dis-ease development. Although the presence of the biocontrol agentwas crucial for disease suppression, the presence of Bacillus in therhizosphere of tomato plants was not signiﬁcantly differentamong treatments under pathogen invasion (Figs S1,S2),although the genus Bacillus was enriched in the soils after contin-uous application of BF. Most of the microbiome in the organicamendment does not thrive in soil conditions due to chemicaland biological constraints and disappears after 1 month(Lourenc /C223oet al.,2018 ). Moreover, the presence of Bacillus in OFwas reported to invoke soil suppression by inducing residentmicrobes, such as Lysobacter and Pseudomonas (Xionget al.,2017a ; Tao et al.,2020 ). Here, we show that the accumula-tion of potential suppressive taxa of the families Sphingomon-adaceae and Xanthomonadaceae was promoted by both organicamendment and bio-control agent addition. Importantly, theinoculation of strains belonging to these families induced sup-pression in conducive soil, which validates their role in regulatingdisease development. Thus, suppressiveness of BF seems to bebased on a combination of the inoculated bio-control agents aswell as the promotion of beneﬁcial microbial groups alreadyresiding in the soil.Agricultural practices that promote soil biodiversity areexpected to increase the stability of the soil microbiome and itsresistance to pathogen invasion (Jurburg & Salles, 2015 ). Fornaturally or anthropogenically driven microbial invasions, thesurvival of an alien species is highly inﬂuenced by the residentcommunity, namely, the so-called diversity-invasion effect, wherehigher diversity leads to lower invasion (Mallon et al.,2015 , Mal-lonet al.,2018 ). Several studies have reported that a lower den-sity of pathogens, whether bacterial (Wei et al.,2015 ) or fungal(Fuet al.,2017 ), is observed in suppressive rhizosphere microbialcommunities. We indeed observed a signiﬁcant reduction in dis-ease incidence and R. solanacearum density in response to the BFmicrobiome in both ﬁeld trials and pot experiments. However,despite clear differences in the bacterial community composition,BF and CF did not lead to changes in the diversity of the rhizo-sphere bacterial communities for either experiment. Thus, it isunlikely that the suppression of R. solanacearum in response toBF treatment can be explained by the diversity of the native soilbacterial communities, both in the bulk and rhizosphere soils;rather, this effect is likely associated with community structureand the dynamics imposed by the treatment.Functional mechanisms drive suppressionAmong all enriched functions under pathogen invasion, micro-bial secondary metabolism is a rich source of low molecularweight bioactive compounds with various functions that facilitatethe interaction of a microbe with its environment (Medemaet al.,2011 ; Seyedsayamdost, 2019 ). Two of the most concerningsecondary metabolite (NRPS and PKS) genes were enrichedFig. 7 Suppressiveness of isolates from Sphingomonadaceae, Xanthomonadaceae, negative controls ( Rhizobium sp. and Devosia sp.) and positive control(Bacillus amyloliquefaciens T-5). (a) Bacterial wilt disease incidence on the 10thday after pathogen inoculation (mean /C6SE). Gray dot represents value ofeach replicate; (b) linear regression between the abundances of nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) and type-I polyketide synthase (PKS) genes andthe pathogen density in the rhizosphere. The randPvalues were calculated through Spearman correlation. Asterisk indicates signiﬁcant difference betweenthe control and each isolate inoculation treatment (Mann –Whitney U-test, *,P≤0.05). The hash symbol indicates signiﬁcant differences between the con-trol and each family inoculation treatment (Mann –Whitney U-test,#,P≤0.05;##,P≤0.01).New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1570 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseunder pathogen invasion in the BF rhizosphere. These twobiosynthetic enzymes are responsible for secondary metabolites,are assembled by acyl-coenzyme A or amino acid building blocks(Silakowski et al.,2001 ), and exhibit a remarkable array of bio-logical activities, such as inducing plant resistance, anti-microbialand anti-parasitic activities (Cane et al .,1998 ; Cane &Walsh, 1999 ;M a et al.,2016 ; Zhao et al.,2018 ). The overrepre-sentation of NRPS and PKS in BF +Rs suggests that the invasionof the rhizosphere by R. solanacearum triggered a suppressivenessenhancement. Furthermore, the enrichment of other potentialauxiliary functions such as translation, post-translational modiﬁ-cation, and protein turnover may potentially help NRPS andPKS expression (Marahiel, 2016 ). Thus, we speculate that thefunctional enrichment in the BF rhizosphere under pathogeninvasion represented a suppression increase toward biotic stress.The enrichment of Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceaemainly contributed to the increase in functional genes involved insecondary metabolite biosynthesis under invasive conditions in theBF rhizosphere. A similar phenomenon was observed, where sec-ondary metabolite biosynthesis genes were contributed by Lutei-monas ,Novosphingobium ,Xanthomonas and Stenotrophomonas ,which were enriched in the Rehmannia glutinosa rhizosphere underpathogen accumulation (Wu et al.,2018 ). Among these two fami-lies, plant-colonizing Lysobacter andStenotrophomonas showed directpathogen inhibition ability, which is consistent with previous stud-ies reporting antimicrobial abilities of these genera (Haywardet al.,2010 ;G/C19omez Exp /C19osito et al.,2015 ) through the secretion ofsecondary metabolites with antibiotic activity (Ryan et al.,2009 ;Zhang et al.,2014 ;B r e s c i a et al.,2020 ). Although plant-colonizingSphingomonas did not promote R. solanacearum suppressiondirectly, some of them showed strong in vivo bacterial wilt suppres-s i o n ,w h i c hw a sa s s o c i a t e dw i t hN R P Sg e n ee n r i c h m e n t .T h i ss u g -gests that Sphingomonas spp. might induce plant tolerance tobacterial wilt through second ary metabolite secretion (Asafet al.,2020 ). The taxa of these two families from suppressive soilhave been widely reported to be induced by OF and BF, whichpotentially contribute to disease suppression (Wei et al.,2011 ;S h e net al.,2014 ;X i o n g et al.,2017a ;L i u et al.,2018 ). The key role ofthese taxa and associated functions in the suppression of R.solanacearum in response to BF application was further veriﬁed byin vivo experiments, where the presence of these strains inducedsuppressiveness in conducive soils, which was linked to the abun-dance of NPRS and PKS genes, albeit the latter at lower extent.Thus, we speculate that the enrichment of these functional genesled to higher R. solanacearum suppression.Bio-organic fertilizer stimulates the responsiveness ofrhizosphere bacterial communities upon invasionSimilar functions can be provided by varied taxonomic composi-tions due to their functional redundancy and overlap (Allison &Martiny, 2008 ; Strickland et al.,2009 ; Reed & Martiny, 2013 ;Louca et al.,2017 ). Similarly, although the two types of rhizo-sphere compositions in this study were assembled from differenttreatments, their functional compositions were similar in theabsence of invasion. Upon biotic stress, however, rhizospherefunctional changes tended to downregulate genes associated withnutrient metabolism and upregulate those associated with sec-ondary metabolite biosynthesis (Fig. 5). Environmental stress anddisturbance have been proven to cause dramatic and conservedshifts in the root microbiome (Ibekwe et al .,2010 ; Bissettet al.,2013 ; Rillig et al.,2019 ; Sun et al.,2021 ;X u et al.,2021 ).The changed community normally shows a composition andspeciﬁc functional shifts to alleviate the corresponding stress(Doornbos et al.,2012 ; Brown et al.,2013 ; Lebeis et al.,2015 ;Bernsdorff et al.,2016 ;X u et al.,2021 ). These common responsecharacteristics indicate that rhizosphere bacterial community suc-cession under biotic stress tended to suppress pathogens. How-ever, the functional genes were mainly increased in the BFrhizosphere under invasion, and the corresponding functionaltaxa of Xanthomonadaceae were relatively abundant in the BFrhizosphere without pathogens. Hence, the BF rhizosphere wascolonized by more reactive bacterial taxa that were stimulatedunder disturbance. Our results indicate that the pre-assemblageof rhizosphere bacterial reservoirs recruited by plants plays animportant role in regulating the ability of the rhizosphere torespond to various environmental disturbances. When pathogeninvasion occurs, the community assembled from long-term inor-ganic practice soil is not sufﬁcient to regulate the functional shiftsto suppress the disturbance. However, when soils are cultivatedin the form of long-term (bio-)organic amendments, a more reac-tive community will be assembled in the rhizosphere. Thus, weconsider that the magnitude of the response reﬂects the commu-nity function ceiling toward environmental disturbance. Reactiverhizosphere bacterial communities can be fostered by soil primedwith bio-organic practices in response to biotic disturbance.ConclusionOur study conﬁrmed that the long-term application of BF yieldssuppressive rhizosphere soil bacterial communities and showedthat suppressiveness is triggered by changes in the communitycomposition of the rhizosphere soil rather than only theabundance of the introduced biocontrol strain. Speciﬁcally, ourexperimental design shows that members of the familiesSphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae with the ability toproduce secondary metabolites were enriched in the plant rhizo-sphere but only upon pathogen invasion. Thus, priming of thesoil microbiome with BF amendment fostered reactive bacterialcommunities in the rhizosphere of tomato plants in response tobiotic disturbances. The results of this study highlight the intri-cate and yet unknown dynamics of the rhizosphere microbiome,and ultimate associated mechanisms, driving disease suppressionin the rhizosphere microbiome manipulated by application withBF. Importantly, we provide ecological support for the targetedmanipulation of the microbiome in agricultural systems to pro-mote soil suppressiveness.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the Natural Science Foundation ofJiangsu Province, China (BK20200562), the Fundamental/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1571 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseResearch Funds for the Central Universities (KJQN202114), theNational Natural Science Foundation of China (41977044,42090065 and 32002132), the China Postdoctoral ScienceFoundation (2020M671520), and the Priority Academic Pro-gram Development of the Jiangsu Higher Education Institutions(PAPD).Competing interestsNone declared.Author contributionsRL, QS designed research; XD, NZ, YL, CZ, BQ performedresearch; XD, HL analyzed data; XD, RL, YB, JFS wrote thearticle.ORCIDYang Bai https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2652-7022Xuhui Deng https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5680-8100Joana Falcao Salles https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4317-7263Rong Li https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2599-5476Yuchan Li https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9374-5914Hongjun Liu https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9985-6906Baoyuan Qu https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9101-4461Qirong Shen https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5662-9620Na Zhang https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8951-7502Data availabilityThe raw sequence data for the 16S rRNA gene and metage-nomics of all samples were submitted to the NCBI SequenceRead Archive database (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/)with the accession no. SRP314987 (ﬁeld experiment) andSRP319842 (pot experiment). The scripts can be found ongithub (https://github.com/dxh7844/Manuscript-scripts/blob/eafb1a2d5b7d9fea00dd3d226300b4167f3e7200/Manuscript%20scripts_2022.2.10.txt).ReferencesAllison SD, Martiny JBH. 2008. Resistance, resilience, and redundancy inmicrobial communities. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA105: 11512 –11519.Asaf S, Numan M, Khan AL, Al-Harrasi A. 2020. Sphingomonas : from diversityand genomics to functional role in environmental remediation and plantgrowth. Critical Reviews in Biotechnology 40: 138 –152.Ayuso-Sacido A, Genilloud O. 2005. New PCR primers for the screening ofNRPS and PKS-I systems in actinomycetes: detection and distribution of thesebiosynthetic gene sequences in major taxonomic groups. Microbial Ecology 49:10–24.Bai Y, M €uller DB, Srinivas G, Garrido-Oter R, Potthoff E, Rott M,Dombrowski N, M €unch PC, Spaepen S, Remus-Emsermann M et al. 2015.Functional overlap of the Arabidopsis leaf and root microbiota. Nature 528:364–369.Bender SF, Wagg C, van der Heijden MGA. 2016. An underground revolution:biodiversity and soil ecological engineering for agricultural sustainability.Trends in Ecology and Evolution 31: 440 –452.Berendsen RL, Pieterse CMJ, Bakker PAHM. 2012. The rhizospheremicrobiome and plant health. Trends in Plant Science 17: 478 –486.Bernsdorff F, D €oring A-C, Gruner K, Schuck S, Br €autigam A, Zeier J. 2016.Pipecolic acid orchestrates plant systemic acquired resistance and defense primingvia salicylic acid-dependent and -independent pathways. Plant Cell 28:1 0 2 –129.Bissett A, Brown MV, Siciliano SD, Thrall PH. 2013. Microbial communityresponses to anthropogenically induced environmental change: towards asystems approach. Ecology Letters 16: 128 –139.Bonanomi G, Antignani V, Capodilupo M, Scala F. 2010. Identifying thecharacteristics of organic soil amendments that suppress soilborne plantdiseases. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 42: 136 –144.Brescia F, Marchetti-Deschmann M, Musetti R, Perazzolli M, Pertot I, PuopoloG. 2020. The rhizosphere signature on the cell motility, bioﬁlm formation andsecondary metabolite production of a plant-associated Lysobacter strain.Microbiological Research 234: 126424.Brown EM, Sadarangani M, Finlay BB. 2013. The role of the immune system ingoverning host-microbe interactions in the intestine. Nature Immunology14:660–667.Cane DE, Walsh CT. 1999. The parallel and convergent universes of polyketidesynthases and nonribosomal peptide synthetases. Chemistry and Biology 6:R319 –R325.Cane DE, Walsh CT, Khosla C. 1998. Harnessing the biosynthetic code:combinations, permutations, and mutations. Science 282:6 3–68.Carri /C19on VJ, Perez-Jaramillo J, Cordovez V, Tracanna V, De Hollander M, Ruiz-Buck D, Mendes LW, van Ijcken WFJ, Gomez-Exposito R, Elsayed SS et al.2019. Pathogen-induced activation of disease-suppressive functions in theendophytic root microbiome. Science 366: 606 –612.Cha JY, Han S, Hong HJ, Cho H, Kim D, Kwon Y, Kwon SK, Crusemann M,Bok Lee Y, Kim JF et al. 2016. Microbial and biochemical basis of a Fusariumwilt-suppressive soil. ISME Journal 10: 119 –129.Chapelle E, Mendes R, Bakker PAH, Raaijmakers JM. 2016. Fungal invasion ofthe rhizosphere microbiome. ISME Journal 10: 265 –268.Charlop-Powers Z, Owen JG, Reddy BVB, Ternei MA, Brady SF. 2014.Chemical-biogeographic survey of secondary metabolism in soil. Proceedings ofthe National Academy of Sciences, USA 111: 3757 –3762.De Corato U. 2020. Disease-suppressive compost enhances natural soilsuppressiveness against soil-borne plant pathogens: a critical review. Rhizosphere13: 100192.Deng X, Zhang N, Shen Z, Zhu C, Liu H, Xu Z, Li R, Shen Q, Salles JF. 2021.Soil microbiome manipulation triggers direct and possible indirect suppressionagainst Ralstonia solanacearum andFusarium oxysporum .NPJ Bioﬁlms andMicrobiomes 7: 33.Dick RP. 1992. A review: long-term effects of agricultural systems on soilbiochemical and microbial parameters. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment40:2 5–36.Ding C, Shen Q, Zhang R, Chen W. 2013. Evaluation of rhizosphere bacteriaand derived bio-organic fertilizers as potential biocontrol agents againstbacterial wilt ( Ralstonia solanacearum ) of potato. Plant and Soil 366: 453 –466.Dini-Andreote F, Raaijmakers JM. 2018. Embracing community ecology inplant microbiome research. Trends in Plant Science 23: 467 –469.Doornbos RF, Van Loon LC, Bakker PAHM. 2012. Impact of root exudates andplant defense signaling on bacterial communities in the rhizosphere. A review.Agronomy for Sustainable Development 32: 227 –243.Duffy BK, Ownley BH, Weller DM. 1997. Soil chemical and physical propertiesassociated with suppression of take-all of wheat by Trichoderma koningii .Phytopathology 87: 1118 –1124.Edgar RC. 2013. UPARSE : highly accurate OTU sequences from microbialamplicon reads. Nature Methods 10: 996 –998.Fu L, Penton CR, Ruan Y, Shen Z, Xue C, Li R, Shen Q. 2017. Inducing therhizosphere microbiome by biofertilizer application to suppress bananaFusarium wilt disease. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 104:3 9–48.Garbeva P, van Veen JA, van Elsas JD. 2004. Microbial diversity in soil: selectionof microbial populations by plant and soil type and implications for diseasesuppressiveness. Annual Review of Phytopathology 42: 243 –270.G/C19omez Exp /C19osito R, Postma J, Raaijmakers JM, De Bruijn I. 2015. Diversity andactivity of Lysobacter species from disease suppressive soils. Frontiers inMicrobiology 6: 1243.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1572 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseHaas D, D /C19efago G. 2005. Biological control of soil-borne pathogens byﬂuorescent pseudomonads .Nature Reviews Microbiology 3: 307 –319.Hartmann M, Frey B, Mayer J, M €ader P, Widmer F. 2015. Distinct soilmicrobial diversity under long-term organic and conventional farming. ISMEJournal 9: 1177 –1194.Hayward AC, Fegan N, Fegan M, Stirling GR. 2010. Stenotrophomonas andLysobacter : ubiquitous plant-associated gamma- proteobacteria of developingsigniﬁcance in applied microbiology. Journal of Applied Microbiology 108: 756 –770.Hoitink H, Boehm M. 1999. Biocontrol within the context of soil microbialcommunities: a substrate-dependent phenomenon. Annual Review ofPhytopathology 37: 427 –446.Hu J, Wei Z, Friman V-P, Gu S-H, Wang X-F, Eisenhauer N, Yang T-J, Ma J,Shen Q-R, Xu Y-C et al. 2016. Probiotic diversity enhances rhizospheremicrobiome function and plant disease suppression. mBio 7: e01790-16.Ibekwe AM, Poss JA, Grattan SR, Grieve CM, Suarez D. 2010. Bacterialdiversity in cucumber ( Cucumis sativus ) rhizosphere in response to salinity, soilpH, and boron. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 42: 567 –575.Jurburg SD, Salles JF. 2015. Functional redundancy and ecosystem function –the soil microbiota as a case study. In: Blanco J, Lo Y-H, Roy S, eds.Biodiversity in ecosystems –linking structure and function . Rijeka, Croatia:InTech, 29 –42.Khodadad CLM, Zimmerman AR, Green SJ, Uthandi S, Foster JS. 2011. Taxa-speciﬁc changes in soil microbial community composition induced bypyrogenic carbon amendments. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 43: 385 –392.Kinkel LL, Bakker MG, Schlatter DC. 2011. A coevolutionary framework formanaging disease-suppressive soils. Annual Review of Phytopathology 49:4 7–67.Kwak MJ, Kong HG, Choi K, Kwon SK, Song JY, Lee J, Lee PA, Choi SY, SeoM, Lee HJ et al. 2018. Rhizosphere microbiome structure alters to enable wiltresistance in tomato. Nature Biotechnology 36: 1100 –1109.Lang J, Hu J, Ran W, Xu Y, Shen Q. 2012. Control of cotton Verticillium wiltand fungal diversity of rhizosphere soils by bio-organic fertilizer. Biology andFertility of Soils 48: 191 –203.Lebeis SL, Paredes SH, Lundberg DS, Breakﬁeld N, Gehring J, McDonald M,Malfatti S, Glavina del Rio T, Jones CD, Tringe SG et al. 2015. Salicylic acidmodulates colonization of the root microbiome by speciﬁc bacterial taxa.Science 349: 860 –864.Liu H, Xiong W, Zhang R, Hang X, Wang D, Li R, Shen Q. 2018. Continuousapplication of different organic additives can suppress tomato disease byinducing the healthy rhizospheric microbiota through alterations to the bulksoil microﬂora. Plant and Soil 423: 229 –240.Louca S, Jacques SMS, Pires APF, Leal JS, Srivastava DS, Parfrey LW, FarjallaVF, Doebeli M. 2017. High taxonomic variability despite stable functionalstructure across microbial communities. Nature Ecology & Evolution 1:1–12.Lourenc /C223o KS, Suleiman AKA, Pijl A, van Veen JA, Cantarella H, Kuramae EE.2018. Resilience of the resident soil microbiome to organic and inorganicamendment disturbances and to temporary bacterial invasion. Microbiome 6:142.Lundberg DS, Lebeis SL, Paredes SH, Yourstone S, Gehring J, Malfatti S,Tremblay J, Engelbrektson A, Kunin V, del Rio TG et al. 2012. Deﬁning thecore Arabidopsis thaliana root microbiome. Nature 488:8 6–90.Ma Z, Hoang Hua GKH, Ongena M, H €ofte M. 2016. Role of phenazines andcyclic lipopeptides produced by pseudomonas sp . CMR12a in induced systemicresistance on rice and bean. Environmental Microbiology Reports 8: 896 –904.Mallon CA, van Elsas JD, Salles JF. 2015. Microbial invasions: the process,patterns, and mechanisms. Trends in Microbiology 23: 719 –729.Mallon CA, Le Roux X, van Doorn GS, Dini-Andreote F, Poly F, Salles JF. 2018.The impact of failure: unsuccessful bacterial invasions steer the soil microbialcommunity away from the invader’s niche. ISME Journal 12: 728 –741.Marahiel MA. 2016. A structural model for multimodular NRPS assembly lines.Natural Product Reports 33: 136 –140.Mawarda PC, Le Roux X, Dirk van Elsas J, Salles JF. 2020.Deliberate introductionof invisible invaders: a critical appraisa l of the impact of microbial inoculants onsoil microbial communities. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 148: 107874.Medema MH, Blin K, Cimermancic P, De Jager V, Zakrzewski P, FischbachMA, Weber T, Takano E, Breitling R. 2011. ANTISMASH : rapid identiﬁcation,annotation and analysis of secondary metabolite biosynthesis gene clusters inbacterial and fungal genome sequences. Nucleic Acids Research 39: W339 –W346.Mendes R, Kruijt M, De Bruijn I, Dekkers E, Van Der Voort M, SchneiderJHM, Piceno YM, DeSantis TZ, Andersen GL, Bakker PAHM et al. 2011.Deciphering the rhizosphere microbiome for disease-suppressive bacteria.Science 332: 1097 –1100.Mendes LW, Mendes R, Raaijmakers JM, Tsai SM. 2018. Breeding for soil-borne pathogen resistance impacts active rhizosphere microbiome of commonbean. ISME Journal 12: 3038 –3042.Mendes LW, Tsai SM, Navarrete AA, de Hollander M, van Veen JA, KuramaeEE. 2015. Soil-borne microbiome: linking diversity to function. MicrobialEcology 70: 255 –265.Mori K, Iriye R, Hirata M, Takamizawa K. 2004. Quantiﬁcation of Bacillusspecies in a wastewater treatment system by the molecular analyses.Biotechnology and Bioprocess Engineering 9: 482 –489.Park JH, Lamb D, Paneerselvam P, Choppala G, Bolan N, Chung J-W. 2011.Role of organic amendments on enhanced bioremediation of heavy metal (loid)contaminated soils. Journal of Hazardous Materials 185: 549 –574.Peters R, Sturz A, Carter M, Sanderson J. 2003. Developing disease-suppressivesoils through crop rotation and tillage management practices. Soil and TillageResearch 72: 181 –192.Raaijmakers JM, Mazzola M. 2016. Soil immune responses. Science 352: 1392 –1393.Raaijmakers JM, Paulitz TC, Steinberg C, Alabouvette C, Mo €enne-Loccoz Y.2009. The rhizosphere: a playground and battleﬁeld for soilborne pathogensand beneﬁcial microorganisms. Plant and Soil 321: 341 –361.Reed HE, Martiny JBH. 2013. Microbial composition affects the functioning ofestuarine sediments. ISME Journal 7: 868 –879.Rillig MC, Ryo M, Lehmann A, Aguilar-Trigueros CA, Buchert S, Wulf A,Iwasaki A, Roy J, Yang G. 2019. The role of multiple global change factors indriving soil functions and microbial biodiversity. Science 366: 886 –890.Ryan RP, Monchy S, Cardinale M, Taghavi S, Crossman L, Avison MB, BergG, van der Lelie D, Dow JM. 2009. The versatility and adaptation of bacteriafrom the genus Stenotrophomonas .Nature Reviews Microbiology7: 514 –525.Schirmer A, Gadkari R, Reeves CD, Ibrahim F, DeLong EF, Hutchinson CR.2005. Metagenomic analysis reveals diverse polyketide synthase gene clusters inmicroorganisms associated with the marine sponge Discodermia dissoluta .Applied and Environmental Microbiology 71: 4840 –4849.Sch€onfeld J, Heuer H, Van Elsas JD, Smalla K. 2003. Speciﬁc and sensitivedetection of Ralstonia solanacearum in soil on the basis of PCR ampliﬁcation ofﬂiC fragments. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 69: 7248 –7256.Schroth MN, Hancock JG. 1982. Disease-suppressive soil and root-colonizingbacteria. Science 216: 1376 –1381.Seyedsayamdost MR. 2019. Toward a global picture of bacterial secondarymetabolism. Journal of Industrial Microbiology and Biotechnology 46: 301 –311.Shen Z, Ruan Y, Wang B, Zhong S, Su L, Li R, Shen Q. 2015. Effect ofbiofertilizer for suppressing Fusarium wilt disease of banana as well asenhancing microbial and chemical properties of soil under greenhouse trial.Applied Soil Ecology 93: 111 –119.Shen Z, Wang D, Ruan Y, Xue C, Zhang J, Li R, Shen Q. 2014. Deep 16SrRNA pyrosequencing reveals a bacterial community associated with bananaFusarium wilt disease suppression induced by bio-organic fertilizer application.PLoS ONE 9: e98420.Silakowski B, Nordsiek G, Kunze B, Bl €ocker H, M €uller R. 2001. Novel featuresin a combined polyketide synthase/non-ribosomal peptide synthetase: themyxalamid biosynthetic gene cluster of the myxobacterium Stigmatellaaurantiaca Sga15. Chemistry and Biology 8:5 9–69.Steinegger M, S €oding J. 2018. Clustering huge protein sequence sets in lineartime. Nature Communications 9:1–8.Strickland MS, Lauber C, Fierer N, Bradford MA. 2009. Testing the functionalsigniﬁcance of microbial community composition. Ecology 90: 441 –451.Sun X, Song B, Xu R, Zhang M, Gao P, Lin H, Sun W. 2021. Root-associated(rhizosphere and endosphere) microbiomes of the Miscanthus sinensis and theirresponse to the heavy metal contamination. Journal of Environmental Sciences104: 387 –398.Tan S, Jiang Y, Song S, Huang J, Ling N, Xu Y, Shen Q. 2013. Two B acillusamyloliquefaciens strains isolated using the competitive tomato root enrichment/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 1573 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensemethod and their effects on suppressing Ralstonia solanacearum and promotingtomato plant growth. Crop Protection 43: 134 –140.T a oC ,L iR ,X i o n gW ,S h e nZ ,L i uS ,W a n gB ,R u a nY ,G e i s e nS ,S h e nQ ,Kowalchuk GA. 2020. Bio-organic fertilizers stimulate indigenous soilPseudomonas populations to enhance plant disease suppression. Microbiome 8:1 3 7 .Tkacz A, Cheema J, Chandra G, Grant A, Poole PS. 2015. Stability andsuccession of the rhizosphere microbiota depends upon plant type and soilcomposition. ISME Journal 9: 2349 –2359.Wang Q, Garrity GM, Tiedje JM, Cole JR. 2007. Naive Bayesian classiﬁer forrapid assignment of rRNA sequences into the new bacterial taxonomy. Appliedand Environmental Microbiology 73: 5261 –5267.Wang C, Liu D, Bai E. 2018. Decreasing soil microbial diversity is associatedwith decreasing microbial biomass under nitrogen addition. Soil Biology andBiochemistry 120: 126 –133.Weber T, Blin K, Duddela S, Krug D, Kim HU, Bruccoleri R, Lee SY,Fischbach MA, M €uller R, Wohlleben W et al. 2015. ANTISMASH 3.0–acomprehensive resource for the genome mining of biosynthetic gene clusters.Nucleic Acids Research 43: W237 –W243.Wei Z, Yang T, Friman V-P, Xu Y, Shen Q, Jousset A. 2015. Trophic networkarchitecture of root-associated bacterial communities determines pathogeninvasion and plant health. Nature Communications 6: 8413.Wei Z, Yang X, Yin S, Shen Q, Ran W, Xu Y. 2011. Efﬁcacy of Bacillus -fortiﬁedorganic fertiliser in controlling bacterial wilt of tomato in the ﬁeld. Applied SoilEcology 48: 152 –159.Wu L, Wang J, Wu H, Chen J, Xiao Z, Qin X, Zhang Z, Lin W. 2018.Comparative metagenomic analysis of rhizosphere microbial communitycomposition and functional potentials under Rehmannia glutinosa consecutivemonoculture. International Journal of Molecular Sciences 19: 2394.Xiong W, Guo S, Jousset A, Zhao Q, Wu H, Li R, Kowalchuk GA, Shen Q.2017a. Bio-fertilizer application induces soil suppressiveness against Fusariumwilt disease by reshaping the soil microbiome. Soil Biology and Biochemistry114: 238 –247.Xiong W, Li R, Ren Y, Liu C, Zhao Q, Wu H, Jousset A, Shen Q. 2017b.Distinct roles for soil fungal and bacterial communities associated with thesuppression of vanilla Fusarium wilt disease. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 107:198–207.Xu L, Dong Z, Chiniquy D, Pierroz G, Deng S, Gao C, Diamond S, SimmonsT, Wipf HM-L, Caddell D et al. 2021. Genome-resolved metagenomicsreveals role of iron metabolism in drought-induced rhizosphere microbiomedynamics. Nature Communications 12: 3209.Zhang J, Du L, Liu F, Xu F, Hu B, Venturi V, Qian G. 2014. Involvement ofboth PKS and NRPS in antibacterial activity in Lysobacter enzymogenes OH11.FEMS Microbiology Letters 355: 170 –176.Zhang J, Liu YX, Guo X, Qin Y, Garrido-Oter R, Schulze-Lefert P, Bai Y. 2021.High-throughput cultivation and identiﬁcation of bacteria from the plant rootmicrobiota. Nature Protocols 16: 988 –1012.Zhang J, Liu Y-X, Zhang N, Hu B, Jin T, Xu H, Qin Y, Yan P, Zhang X, GuoXet al. 2019. NRT1.1B is associated with root microbiota composition andnitrogen use in ﬁeld-grown rice. Nature Biotechnology 37: 676 –684.Zhao M, Yuan J, Zhang R, Dong M, Deng X, Zhu C, Li R, Shen Q. 2018.Microﬂora that harbor the NRPS gene are responsible for Fusarium wiltdisease-suppressive soil. Applied Soil Ecology 132:8 3–90.Supporting InformationAdditional Supporting Information may be found online in theSupporting Information section at the end of the article.Fig. S1 Plant biomass and soil Bacillus density from ﬁeld experi-ment.Fig. S2 Bacillus density from tomato rhizosphere soil in potexperiment.Fig. S3 PCoA of bacterial community in pot experiment.Fig. S4 The dynamic relative abundance of potential key taxaamong all compartment.Fig. S5 Responsiveness of rhizosphere bacteria with Ralstoniasolanacearum invasion based on metagenome data.Fig. S6 Secondary metabolites response of rhizosphere bacterialcommunity with Ralstonia solanacearum invasion based onANTISMASH database.Fig. S7 Heatmap of bacterial community based on family levelthat abundance was >0.1%.Fig. S8 Fifteen most abundant bacteria which contributed ‘V_defense mechanism’ of eggNOG.Fig. S9 Phylogenetic tree of culturable isolates from rhizosphere.Fig. S10 Thein vivo andin vitro pathogen suppression of the iso-lates.Fig. S11 Functional gene abundance from isolates inoculationexperiment.Table S1 PERMANOVA for rhizosphere microbial communityin 10thday after Ralstonia solanacearum inoculation.Table S2 Unifrac distance among rhizosphere microbial commu-nity in 10thday after Ralstonia solanacearum inoculation.Table S3 Correlation between change scale of communityindexes and Ralstonia solanacearum abundance of RhT10.Table S4 Relative abundance and classiﬁcation details of respon-sive taxa under Ralstonia solanacearum inoculation.Please note: Wiley Blackwell are not responsible for the contentor functionality of any Supporting Information supplied by theauthors. Any queries (other than missing material) should bedirected to the New Phytologist Central Ofﬁce.New Phytologist (2022) 235: 1558–1574www.newphytologist.com/C2112022 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112022 New Phytologist Foundation.ResearchNewPhytologist 1574 14698137, 2022, 4, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.18221 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License