 International Journal of  Molecular SciencesReviewCarbon Catabolite Repression in Filamentous FungiMuhammad Adnan1,2, Wenhui Zheng1,2, Waqar Islam1, Muhammad Arif1,Yakubu Saddeeq Abubakar1,2 ID, Zonghua Wang1,2and Guodong Lu1,2,*ID1State Key Laboratory of Ecological Pest Control for Fujian and Taiwan Crops, Fujian Agriculture andForestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China; 2151904006@m.fafu.edu.cn (M.A.); wenhuiz@fafu.edu.cn (W.Z.);waqarislam@m.fafu.edu.cn (W.I.); 2141904001@m.fafu.edu.cn (M.A.); ay.saddeeq@gmail.com (Y.S.A.);wangzh@fafu.edu.cn (Z.W.)2Key Laboratory of Bio-Pesticides and Chemical Biology, Ministry of Education, Fujian Agriculture andForestry University, Fuzhou 350002, China*Corresponding author: lgd@fafu.edu.cn; Tel.: +86-591-8378-9478Received: 18 November 2017; Accepted: 20 December 2017; Published: 24 December 2017Abstract: Carbon Catabolite Repression (CCR) has fascinated scientists and researchers around theglobe for the past few decades. This important mechanism allows preferential utilization of anenergy-efﬁcient and readily available carbon source over relatively less easily accessible carbonsources. This mechanism helps microorganisms to obtain maximum amount of glucose in order tokeep pace with their metabolism. Microorganisms assimilate glucose and highly favorable sugarsbefore switching to less-favored sources of carbon such as organic acids and alcohols. In CCRof ﬁlamentous fungi, CreA acts as a transcription factor, which is regulated to some extent byubiquitination. CreD-HulA ubiquitination ligase complex helps in CreA ubiquitination, whileCreB-CreC deubiquitination (DUB) complex removes ubiquitin from CreA, which causes its activation.CCR of fungi also involves some very crucial elements such as Hexokinases, cAMP , Protein Kinase(PKA), Ras proteins, G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), Adenylate cyclase, RcoA and SnfA.Thorough study of molecular mechanism of CCR is important for understanding growth, conidiation,virulence and survival of ﬁlamentous fungi. This review is a comprehensive revision of the regulationof CCR in ﬁlamentous fungi as well as an updated summary of key regulators, regulation of differentCCR-dependent mechanisms and its impact on various physical characteristics of ﬁlamentous fungi.Keywords: carbon catabolite repression; sensing and signaling pathway; phosphorylation;hexokinase; transport proteins; cAMP; CreA ; ubiquitination1. IntroductionFungi are responsible for causing devastating diseases of fauna and ﬂora. Pathogenic fungihave developed genetic mechanisms and molecular strategies to survive unpredictable scenariosand establish effective disease conditions in their hosts [ 1–3]. Regulation of carbon metabolism isvery important for disease establishment by ﬁlamentous fungi. Carbon Catabolite Repression helpsmicroorganisms to precisely adapt their physiology to the environment. The importance of this ﬁnetuning is illustrated by the ﬁnding that within populations there may be balancing selections forindividuals with fast and slow rates of reprogramming [ 2,4,5]. CCR switches off certain enzymesrequired to utilize less-favored carbon sources when a more readily available carbon source is presentin the medium [ 1,5]. Therefore, CCR acts as an economical instrument in microorganisms for screeningglucose. Apart from regulating the uptake of glucose, CCR may also inﬂuence the survival ofmicroorganisms by affecting virulence, adaptation, cellular communication and motility.CCR has been studied extensively in Saccharomyces cerevisiae , which serves as a model organismfor understanding the complexity of repression, derepression and induction of gene expression inInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48; doi:10.3390/ijms19010048 www.mdpi.com/journal/ijmsInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 2 of 23response to glucose [ 2,6]. Among ﬁlamentous fungi, CCR has been studied most extensively in themodel organism Aspergillus nidulans , which serves as a second model organism for comparison [ 7].Mutants of CCR in A. nidulans have been mapped to deﬁne the genes CreA (Cre = catabolite responsiveelements), CreB ,CreC and CreD [8–11]. In addition, other species of Aspergillus such as A. oryzae andA. ﬂavus have also been adequately studied in relation to CCR [12,13].CreA is a transcription factor, and like Mig1 in S. cerevisiae it has a C 2H2Zinc ﬁnger DNA bindingdomain required for CCR [ 5]. When glucose is detected by A. nidulans , CreA represses the genesthat encode the enzymes that utilize other secondary carbon sources such as lignocellulose [ 1,5,14].It is already known that CreA repression occurs at transcriptional level; however, this aspectneeds further work [ 5,15]. The regulation of cellular activities is dependent on CCR under normalcircumstances, which is further regulated by CreA and its counterparts and also involves ubiquitinationand phosphorylation. Addition and removal of ubiquitin molecules help in the activation of CreA.Moreover, CreB-CreC deubiquitination complex is also involved at this juncture [ 5]. Interaction ofDUB enzymes with ubiquitin ligases and their combination control the quantity of transcriptionfactors in CCR [ 16]. Similarly, phosphorylation controls the localization and function of CreA,by post-transcriptional modiﬁcation [ 5]. Although CreA and MIG1 appear to be orthologs, thereare obvious differences in the pathways governing CCR, as such pathways have diverged overevolutionary time. An understanding of the events in the divergence of such a complex regulatorynetwork as CCR will provide an insight into the evolutionary mechanisms that allow rewiring ofinterconnected regulatory networks. In order to develop biotechnological processes, particularly forplant biomass deconstruction for conversion to high-value products, a more complete understandingof CCR in a wide variety of fungal species is needed [17–19].2. Sensing and Signaling Pathways of Carbon Catabolite Repression2.1. YeastThe yeast, S. cerevisiae , has served as a model organism regarding CCR sensing and signalingcascades [ 20]. There are three main sensing and signaling pathways, which are interconnected andresponsible for regulation of glucose metabolism in yeast [ 21]. The primary signal for triggeringregulatory process is glucose itself [ 2,22]. Environmental signals are sensed by the G protein-coupledreceptors (GPCRs) or other unknown proteins, leading to the regulation of downstream pathways.The glucose-signaling pathways are cAMP/PKA (consisting of Ras and the model Gpr1/Gpa2),Rgt2/Snf3-Rgt1 and the main repressor pathway Mig1-Hxk2 involving Snf1 [2,23–26].Activation of heterotrimeric and Ras proteins results in modulation of cAMP (cyclic adenosinemonophosphate) levels upon a shift from low to high glucose. Although it is unclear how theG protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), Gpr1, senses glucose, the G homolog, Gpa2, interacts withadenylate cyclase. Adenylate cyclase is more strongly controlled by Ras protein, which is furtherregulated by cdc25 and Ira proteins (the controlling elements of adenylate cyclase) (Figure 1) [27,28] .This pathway operates under environmental conditions where PKA activation neither involvesadenylate cyclase nor cAMP , but includes the G -like proteins krh1, krh2 proteins and Sch9 proteinkinase [ 29–31]. Therefore, in this pathway, Gpr1 and Gpa2 will activate PKA through krh1, krh2 andSch9 proteins in a cAMP independent way (Figure 1).Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 3 of 23Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 3 of 23   Figure 1 . The PKA/Ras -cAMP Pathway in yeast . Adenylate cyclase is controlled by two G -Protein Syste ms in yeast. Ras1 and Ras2 need Sdc25 and cdc25 for activation. Ras Proteins are inactivated (Green) by Ira1 and Ira2. GPR1 system includes sucrose and glucose sensors Gpa2 and GPR1, which  stimulate the adenylate activity. Krh1, Krh2, and Sch9 interact wit h the active Gpa2 (red), and seems to inhibit PKA activity by an unknown mechanism. Pde1 and Pde2 regulate cAMP concentration.  Entrance of glucose into the yeast cells is achieved by facilitated diffusion through hexose transporters (including HXT1–HXT17 , GAL2 , SNF3 and RGT2 ). The uptake of glucose from the environment is efficiently coordinated through the action of transporters of differing affinities.  The activity of the transcriptional repressor ( Rgt1 ) is controlled by the glucose sensors Snf3 and Rgt2 . Rgt2 ( low-affinity glucose sensor) senses high concentrations  of glucose and is induced when glucose level is high within the medium, while Snf3 is a high -affinity glucose sensor and capable of inducing high -affinity transporters when the level of glucos e is very low [32]. Rgt1 is a  repressor of HXT genes in response to Snf3 and Rgt2 signaling. Moreover, different levels of PKA will affect phosphorylation of Rgt1 and influence its binding and blocking of HXT promoters [33–35]. Consequently, high glucose levels will cause complete activation and increased level of PKA , which leads to phosphorylation of Rgt1, therefore low affinity HXTs (HXT1, HXT3) will be induced [36]. On the other hand, low levels of glucose lead to weak activation of PKA and in this case  only high affinity HXTs  (HXT2, HXT4) can be induced [37].  Phosphorylated glucose can cause repression of many genes that  are involved in alternate carbon source utilization e.g., gluconeogenesis and respiration through CCR. This mechanism involves transcr iptional repression in the presence of glucose and relieves repression upon limited glucose levels. The signal required for glucose repression is phosphorylated glucose and hexokinases cause this phosphorylation. Yeasts  possess  three hexokinases Glk2, Hxk1 , Hxk2 , which can phosphorylate glucose (Table  1) [21,38 ]. In S. cerevisiae , the presence of only one of these enzymes is required for growth on glucose [21]. However, only Hxk2 acts in glucose sensing and can interact with the Mig1 repressor complex [34].  The major components of CCR in yeast are Glc7 (protein phosphatase), Snf1 protein kinase complex and Mig1 transcriptional repressor complex as shown in Figure 2 [24,26,39 ]. The DNA binding protein Mig1 forms a complex with the co -repressor proteins Tup1 and Ssn6 ( Figure 2) in order to carry out repression of diverse gene families and related transcriptional regulators, such as MalR (maltose utilization), Gal4 (galactose utilization), Cat8 (gluconeogenic genes), and Hap4 Figure 1. The PKA/Ras-cAMP Pathway in yeast. Adenylate cyclase is controlled by two G-ProteinSystems in yeast. Ras1 and Ras2 need Sdc25 and cdc25 for activation. Ras Proteins are inactivated(Green) by Ira1 and Ira2. GPR1 system includes sucrose and glucose sensors Gpa2 and GPR1, whichstimulate the adenylate activity. Krh1, Krh2, and Sch9 interact with the active Gpa2 (red), and seems toinhibit PKA activity by an unknown mechanism. Pde1 and Pde2 regulate cAMP concentration.Entrance of glucose into the yeast cells is achieved by facilitated diffusion through hexosetransporters (including HXT1–HXT17 ,GAL2 ,SNF3 and RGT2 ). The uptake of glucose from theenvironment is efﬁciently coordinated through the action of transporters of differing afﬁnities.The activity of the transcriptional repressor ( Rgt1 ) is controlled by the glucose sensors Snf3 and Rgt2.Rgt2 (low-afﬁnity glucose sensor) senses high concentrations of glucose and is induced when glucoselevel is high within the medium, while Snf3 is a high-afﬁnity glucose sensor and capable of inducinghigh-afﬁnity transporters when the level of glucose is very low [ 32]. Rgt1 is a repressor of HXT genesin response to Snf3 and Rgt2 signaling. Moreover, different levels of PKA will affect phosphorylationof Rgt1 and inﬂuence its binding and blocking of HXT promoters [ 33–35]. Consequently, high glucoselevels will cause complete activation and increased level of PKA, which leads to phosphorylation ofRgt1, therefore low afﬁnity HXTs (HXT1, HXT3) will be induced [ 36]. On the other hand, low levels ofglucose lead to weak activation of PKA and in this case only high afﬁnity HXTs (HXT2, HXT4) can beinduced [37].Phosphorylated glucose can cause repression of many genes that are involved in alternate carbonsource utilization e.g., gluconeogenesis and respiration through CCR. This mechanism involvestranscriptional repression in the presence of glucose and relieves repression upon limited glucoselevels. The signal required for glucose repression is phosphorylated glucose and hexokinases causethis phosphorylation. Yeasts possess three hexokinases Glk2, Hxk1, Hxk2, which can phosphorylateglucose (Table 1) [ 21,38]. In S. cerevisiae , the presence of only one of these enzymes is required forgrowth on glucose [ 21]. However, only Hxk2 acts in glucose sensing and can interact with the Mig1repressor complex [34].The major components of CCR in yeast are Glc7 (protein phosphatase), Snf1 protein kinasecomplex and Mig1 transcriptional repressor complex as shown in Figure 2 [ 24,26,39]. The DNAbinding protein Mig1 forms a complex with the co-repressor proteins Tup1 and Ssn6 (Figure 2) in orderInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 4 of 23to carry out repression of diverse gene families and related transcriptional regulators, such as MalR(maltose utilization), Gal4 (galactose utilization), Cat8 (gluconeogenic genes), and Hap4 (respiratorygenes). Glucose-regulated subcellular localization of Mig1 is very important for its proper function inrepression. Mig1 quickly moves to the nucleus in repressing glucose levels, and binds to the promotersof glucose repressible genes [ 22,40]. However, under glucose starvation, Mig1 is mobilized back to thecytoplasm due to phosphorylation by Snf1 [40].Snf1, is the central element of signaling for glucose repression. The Snf1 kinase complex, duringglucose-limiting conditions reprograms the transcription of metabolic genes required for alternatecarbon sources such as sucrose, maltose and galactose. Moreover, it impacts the remodeling andrestructuring of chromatins and adaptation of cells to stress [ 41]. Snf1 kinase activity is activated at lowglucose levels and inhibited in the presence of high glucose levels [ 40]. Snf1 causes phosphorylationof Mig1, and moves it to the cytoplasm during glucose starvation [ 34,40]. The role of Glc7 in CCRis antagonistic to that of Snf1 [ 39,42] (Figure 2). Glc7 plays its role in controlling various processesand has regulatory subunit Hex2/Reg1 for glucose-speciﬁc repression [ 42,43]. Hex2/Reg1 causesinhibition of Snf1 kinase by dephosphorylation depending upon glucose signal [ 26,42,44]. Therefore,the exquisite preference of glucose for yeast as a carbon source lays in its numerous, sophisticatedmechanisms that it has developed to identify the presence of glucose and to adjust to multiple cellularfunctions accordingly.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 4 of 23  (respiratory genes). Glucose -regula ted subcellular localization of Mig1 is very important for its proper function in repression. Mig1 quickly moves to the nucleus in repressing glucose levels, and binds to the promoters of glucose repressible genes [22,40 ]. However , under glucose starvation , Mig1 is mobilized back to the cytoplasm due to phosphorylation by Snf1  [40]. Snf1, is the central element of signaling for glucose repression. The Snf1 kinase complex, during glucose -limiting conditions reprograms the transcription of metabolic genes req uired for alternate carbon sources such as sucrose, maltose and galactose. Moreover, it impacts the remodeling and restructuring of chromatins and adaptation of cells to stress [41]. Snf1 kinase activity is activated at low glucose levels and inhibited in the presence of high glucose levels [40]. Snf1 causes phosphorylation of Mig1, and moves it to the cytoplasm during glucose starvation [34,40 ]. The role of Glc7 in CCR is antagonistic to that of Snf1 [39,42 ] (Figure 2). Glc7 plays its role in controlling various processes and has regulatory subunit Hex2/Reg1 for glucose -specific repression [42,43 ]. Hex2/Reg1 causes inhibition of Snf1 kinase by dephosphorylation depending upon glucose signal [26,42,44 ]. Therefore, the exquisite preference of glucose for yeas t as a carbon source lays in its numerous, sophisticated mechanisms that it has developed to identify the presence of glucose and to adjust to multiple cellular functions accordingly.   Figure 2. CCR regulation mechanism in S. cerevisiae . Figure 2 .    repres ents protein interaction in the nucleus, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1.  Shows that there is no protein interaction, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1 and between Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and promot er gene.  represents the inhibition of transcription [34,45–48]. During high glucose conditions, inactive Snf1 cannot cause phosphorylation of Mig1 and cellular movement of Mig1 is dependent on Glc7 –Reg1 complex; whereas during low glucose levels Snf1 will be active and cause direct repression of Snf1, which will be unable to repress the CCR subjected genes.    Figure 2. CCR regulation mechanism in S. cerevisiae.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 4 of 23  (respiratory genes). Glucose -regula ted subcellular localization of Mig1 is very important for its proper function in repression. Mig1 quickly moves to the nucleus in repressing glucose levels, and binds to the promoters of glucose repressible genes [22,40 ]. However , under glucose starvation , Mig1 is mobilized back to the cytoplasm due to phosphorylation by Snf1  [40]. Snf1, is the central element of signaling for glucose repression. The Snf1 kinase complex, during glucose -limiting conditions reprograms the transcription of metabolic genes req uired for alternate carbon sources such as sucrose, maltose and galactose. Moreover, it impacts the remodeling and restructuring of chromatins and adaptation of cells to stress [41]. Snf1 kinase activity is activated at low glucose levels and inhibited in the presence of high glucose levels [40]. Snf1 causes phosphorylation of Mig1, and moves it to the cytoplasm during glucose starvation [34,40 ]. The role of Glc7 in CCR is antagonistic to that of Snf1 [39,42 ] (Figure 2). Glc7 plays its role in controlling various processes and has regulatory subunit Hex2/Reg1 for glucose -specific repression [42,43 ]. Hex2/Reg1 causes inhibition of Snf1 kinase by dephosphorylation depending upon glucose signal [26,42,44 ]. Therefore, the exquisite preference of glucose for yeas t as a carbon source lays in its numerous, sophisticated mechanisms that it has developed to identify the presence of glucose and to adjust to multiple cellular functions accordingly.   Figure 2. CCR regulation mechanism in S. cerevisiae . Figure 2 .    repres ents protein interaction in the nucleus, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1.  Shows that there is no protein interaction, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1 and between Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and promot er gene.  represents the inhibition of transcription [34,45–48]. During high glucose conditions, inactive Snf1 cannot cause phosphorylation of Mig1 and cellular movement of Mig1 is dependent on Glc7 –Reg1 complex; whereas during low glucose levels Snf1 will be active and cause direct repression of Snf1, which will be unable to repress the CCR subjected genes.     represents protein interaction in thenucleus, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6-Tup1 co-repressor complex andInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 4 of 23  (respiratory genes). Glucose -regula ted subcellular localization of Mig1 is very important for its proper function in repression. Mig1 quickly moves to the nucleus in repressing glucose levels, and binds to the promoters of glucose repressible genes [22,40 ]. However , under glucose starvation , Mig1 is mobilized back to the cytoplasm due to phosphorylation by Snf1  [40]. Snf1, is the central element of signaling for glucose repression. The Snf1 kinase complex, during glucose -limiting conditions reprograms the transcription of metabolic genes req uired for alternate carbon sources such as sucrose, maltose and galactose. Moreover, it impacts the remodeling and restructuring of chromatins and adaptation of cells to stress [41]. Snf1 kinase activity is activated at low glucose levels and inhibited in the presence of high glucose levels [40]. Snf1 causes phosphorylation of Mig1, and moves it to the cytoplasm during glucose starvation [34,40 ]. The role of Glc7 in CCR is antagonistic to that of Snf1 [39,42 ] (Figure 2). Glc7 plays its role in controlling various processes and has regulatory subunit Hex2/Reg1 for glucose -specific repression [42,43 ]. Hex2/Reg1 causes inhibition of Snf1 kinase by dephosphorylation depending upon glucose signal [26,42,44 ]. Therefore, the exquisite preference of glucose for yeas t as a carbon source lays in its numerous, sophisticated mechanisms that it has developed to identify the presence of glucose and to adjust to multiple cellular functions accordingly.   Figure 2. CCR regulation mechanism in S. cerevisiae . Figure 2 .    repres ents protein interaction in the nucleus, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1.  Shows that there is no protein interaction, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1 and between Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and promot er gene.  represents the inhibition of transcription [34,45–48]. During high glucose conditions, inactive Snf1 cannot cause phosphorylation of Mig1 and cellular movement of Mig1 is dependent on Glc7 –Reg1 complex; whereas during low glucose levels Snf1 will be active and cause direct repression of Snf1, which will be unable to repress the CCR subjected genes.     mig1. Shows that there is noprotein interaction, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6-Tup1 co-repressor complex and mig1 and between Ssn6-Tup1co-repressor complex and promoter gene.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 4 of 23  (respiratory genes). Glucose -regula ted subcellular localization of Mig1 is very important for its proper function in repression. Mig1 quickly moves to the nucleus in repressing glucose levels, and binds to the promoters of glucose repressible genes [22,40 ]. However , under glucose starvation , Mig1 is mobilized back to the cytoplasm due to phosphorylation by Snf1  [40]. Snf1, is the central element of signaling for glucose repression. The Snf1 kinase complex, during glucose -limiting conditions reprograms the transcription of metabolic genes req uired for alternate carbon sources such as sucrose, maltose and galactose. Moreover, it impacts the remodeling and restructuring of chromatins and adaptation of cells to stress [41]. Snf1 kinase activity is activated at low glucose levels and inhibited in the presence of high glucose levels [40]. Snf1 causes phosphorylation of Mig1, and moves it to the cytoplasm during glucose starvation [34,40 ]. The role of Glc7 in CCR is antagonistic to that of Snf1 [39,42 ] (Figure 2). Glc7 plays its role in controlling various processes and has regulatory subunit Hex2/Reg1 for glucose -specific repression [42,43 ]. Hex2/Reg1 causes inhibition of Snf1 kinase by dephosphorylation depending upon glucose signal [26,42,44 ]. Therefore, the exquisite preference of glucose for yeas t as a carbon source lays in its numerous, sophisticated mechanisms that it has developed to identify the presence of glucose and to adjust to multiple cellular functions accordingly.   Figure 2. CCR regulation mechanism in S. cerevisiae . Figure 2 .    repres ents protein interaction in the nucleus, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1.  Shows that there is no protein interaction, mig1 and hxk2, Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and mig1 and between Ssn6 -Tup1 co -repressor complex and promot er gene.  represents the inhibition of transcription [34,45–48]. During high glucose conditions, inactive Snf1 cannot cause phosphorylation of Mig1 and cellular movement of Mig1 is dependent on Glc7 –Reg1 complex; whereas during low glucose levels Snf1 will be active and cause direct repression of Snf1, which will be unable to repress the CCR subjected genes.     represents the inhibition of transcription [ 34,45–48].During high glucose conditions, inactive Snf1 cannot cause phosphorylation of Mig1 and cellularmovement of Mig1 is dependent on Glc7–Reg1 complex; whereas during low glucose levels Snf1 willbe active and cause direct repression of Snf1, which will be unable to repress the CCR subjected genes.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 5 of 23Table 1. Glucose sensing comparison between S. cerevisiae and ﬁlamentous fungi.Nature/Kind ofGlucose SensorSensor/SensorsinS. cerevisiaeSensor/Sensors inFilamentous FungiFunction in Filamentous FungiTransporter Snf3, Rgt2Rco3(N. crassa )Rco3 in N. crassa might perform the same role ascompared to yeast proteins but structure of Rco3 isdifferent. It may have wider role than yeast proteinsin CCR which only regulate hexose transporters [ 49].Hexokinase Glk2, Hxk1,Hxk2HxkA, GlkA(A. nidulans )No evidence showed direct role of a singlehexokinase like yeast to start CCR butphosphorylation is required [50].HxkC, HxkD(A. nidulans )Show response in carbon starved conditions whilenot involved in CCR [51].G-proteincoupled receptorGpr1, Gpa2(G3)Gpr4, GCNA1-3 (G 1-3)(N. crassa )In response to glucose the G protein coupledreceptor GPR4 play role in cAMP signaling. WhileGPR4 in yeast interacts with G 1 instead of G 3,and G 1 through G 3 play role in nutrient sensing.BCG3 (G 3)(Botrytis cinerea )During germinating conidia has function in cAMPsignaling/carbon sensing [52].GanB (G 3)(A. nidulans )During germinating conidia has function in cAMPsignaling/carbon sensing [53].GasC (G 3)(Penicillium marneffei )Has no role in nutrient sensing but essential forgerminating conidia [54].Gpr4(C. neoformans )Homologous to yeast Gpr1 but has no role glucosesignaling [55].Gpa1 (G 3)(Cryptococcus neoformans )Involved in cAMP signaling in response to glucoseand melanin production [56].2.2. CCR of Filamentous Fungi and Differences with S. cerevisiaeGlucose sensing among ﬁlamentous fungi involves GPCR and G subunits [ 57–59]. These proteinsplay similar roles in activating cAMP , irrespective of their functional differences in signaling pathwaysamong various ﬁlamentous [ 60,61]. GPR4, the GPCR in N. crassa , plays a similar role as Gpr1 of yeast(activates adenylate cyclase in response to glucose and causes increment of cAMP) [ 60]. However,this protein couples with G 1 subunit, as compared to G 3 (a heterotrimeric protein of yeast). G 3subunit of Botrytis cinerea and A. nidulans plays an important role in cAMP signaling, carbon nutrientsensing and conidial germination [ 52,53]. Similarly, cAMP production in Cryptococcus neoformans iscontrolled by G 3 subunit [ 56]. The cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) plays an importantrole in CCR and fungal growth by regulating primary metabolism and CCR. PKA has two catalyticsubunits encoded by PkaA and PkaB inA. nidulans , where a major role is played by PkaA (via Rasproteins and GPCR) inside the cell [ 59,62]. Adenylate cyclase, after activation by Ras protein andGPCR pathway, leads to increased cAMP production, which binds to PkaA and releases active catalyticsubunit which phosphorylate downstream targets [ 59,63]. The PKA activity in A. fumigatus increasesupon the presence of glucose [ 64]. In A. fumigatus , deletion of the gene coding for pkaC1 orpkaC2(catalytic subunit of the PKA), reduces fungal growth on glucose, which further supports that PKAplays a signiﬁcant role in the fungal glucose metabolism [65].The role of hexokinases is very prominent as only one gene encoding hexokinase is enoughfor growth on glucose in ﬁlamentous fungi. GlkA and frA/hxkA encode catalytic hexokinases inA. nidulans and A. fumigatus [11,66,67]. Unlike yeast, either one of glkA or frA can cause glucosemediated CCR repression in A. nidulans , and both have to be deleted to block repression [ 66,67].Rco3ofN. crassa is a glucose transporter homolog that has an extended C terminus [ 49], like Rgt2 andSnf3. Rco3 was ﬁrst studied in N. crassa where its deletion led to a signiﬁcant reduction in conidiationin submerged cultures having high levels of glucose, xylose, glycerol, or fructose [ 68]. The Rco3mutants show altered response during low and high level glucose transport activity [ 49]. Based onthese observations, it was proposed that Rco3 also functions as a glucose sensor. Mutation of MstAInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 6 of 23(high-afﬁnity glucose transporter) also result in altered expression of other genes encoding hexosetransporters in Aspergillus niger (mstF expression is reduced while mstC is increased) [69].CCR of ﬁlamentous fungi has many similarities to that of yeast, but there are some glaringdifferences as well. The mechanism of CCR is more complex in ﬁlamentous fungi as compared toS. cerevisiae , reﬂecting the differences in lifestyle and ability of ﬁlamentous fungi to utilize a broadrange of C-sources, such as pentoses. In contrast to S. cerevisiae , CCR in ﬁlamentous fungi is not onlyregulated by glucose, but also by high concentrations of other monosaccharides that also affect nuclearlocalization of CreA orthologs [ 70]. The role of G subunits and GPCR are quite similar, however,the interaction of GPCR in ﬁlamentous fungi with signaling components still remains uncertain [ 60,61].Relief of CCR in ﬁlamentous fungi occurs only in the presence of inducers and during metabolic stressor carbon limitation, while it is not the case in yeast [ 70].CreA , the most important factor of CCRinA. nidulans is a homologue of yeast Mig1 . As with S. cerevisiae Mig1, phosphorylation also affectsthe localization and function of CreA [ 71]. The presence of cellulose activates SnfA (homologue ofyeast snf1), which causes CreA phosphorylation, and moves it to the cytoplasm (inactivation of CCR)(Figure 3). This is in contrast to yeast, where phosphorylation moves Mig1 into the nucleus (Figure 2).The presence of glucose inactivates SnfA, resulting in dephosphorylated CreA which returns to thenucleus [72].InA. nidulans ubiquitination is involved during CCR, while in S. cerevisiae there are no suchregulatory genes for this mechanism. Activation of CreA involves addition and subsequent removalof ubiquitin, mediated by CreD-HulA ubiquitin ligase complex and the CreB-CreC DUB complex,respectively (Figure 3) [ 3,73]. The co-repressor proteins, Tup1 and Ssn6, of yeast have RcoA and SsnFhomologues in A. nidulans respectively [ 74]. RcoA is a WD repeat protein of A. Nidulans and is ahomologue of Rco1of N. crassa [75]. CCR in S. cerevisiae involves the co-repressor Tup1 , while therole in CCR of the orthologous Rco1 of N. crassa has not been established. Rco1 does regulatepleiotropic development and gene expression [76,77]. Similarly, in A. nidulans , deletion of RcoA doesnot eliminate CCR, but does alter chromatin structure of carbon catabolite repressible promoters(alcA,alcR and prnD-prnB ) [74]. Interestingly, deletion of SsnF (the putative RcoA partner) is lethal inA. nidulans [74]. Therefore, it can be proposed that RcoA may play an indirect role in CCR by virtue ofits chromatin modulation activity. Therefore, a cohesive picture of glucose signaling has yet to emergein ﬁlamentous fungi.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 , 18,48 7 of 23   Figure  3. Proposed CCR regulation mecha nism in Aspergillus nidulans . Model representing interaction of CreA, CreB, CreC, CreD, HulA, ApyA, RcoA, SsnF, SnfA and Glc7 -Reg1 complex in CCR. CreD along with HulA/ApyA is required in conjugating ubiquitin and CreA. ApyA forms strong protein -protein in teraction with HulA than CreB [8,57]. However CreD and ApyA are both present in A. nidulans.  CreB -CreC complex is required to remove ubiquitin from CreA –Ub complex so that CreA can repress CCR subjected genes. CreB helps in the removal of ubiquitin from Cr eA to prevent degradation of CreA by proteasome [8,78,79]. The role of RcoA and SsnF in binding with the promoters of glucose repressible genes along with CreA  is still unclear [75,80]. However the deletion of RcoA and SsnF can be lethal for A. nidulans  [74]. SnfA and SchA can play synergistic or overlapping role in regulating CreA derepression [31].  3. Key Regulators of CCR in Filamentous Fungi  The role of the key regulators of CCR has already been briefly described above.  However, we will try to provide a  comprehensive description of these factors  here.   3.1. CreA/Cre1  In most fungal species, the zinc finger transcription factor CreA/CRE1/Mig1 mediates different aspects of CCR [5,80–82]. CreA  has been identified in many filamentous fungi such as Metarhiziu m anisopliae , Sclerotinia sclerotiorum , B. cinerea , Neurospora crassa  and Cochliobolus carbonum [83–85]. CreA -encoded protein contains zinc finger of Cys2 -His2 class, common S (T) PXX motifs , alanine rich region and acidic domain [70,86 ]. It binds to 5′-SYGGRG -3′ on DNA, and the  amino acid sequence of its zinc finger region is similar to yeast Mig1, and Wilms tumor suppressor protein [15].  CreA proteins of all fungi contain a highly conserved region of 42 amino acids which is rich in proline, threonine  and serine residues [87]. In T. reesei  and Aspergillus spp. a conserved region of CreA  was identified  to be essential for growth on carbon, lipid and nitrogen sources [5]. In A. nidulans , CreA  plays a particular  role in regulating the utilization of arabi nan, xylan, ethanol and proline [5,16 ]. CreA mutants of A. nidulans , show changes in enzyme activity, depression of primary metabolism and metabolite profile change [88].  In filamentous fungi, CreA  is also related to important pathways of growth and polari ty. CreA of A. nidulans  binds to the promoter region at the DNA sequence 5′-SYGGRG -3′ of xlnA and xlnD (xylanase encoding genes) and causes their direct repression [15]. The expression of xlnR , which encodes the major inducer of xylanases, and to some exte nt cellulase -encoding genes (Table 2) is also repressed by CreA  [4,15,89 ]. All genes which are regulated by xlnR Figure 3. Proposed CCR regulation mechanism in Aspergillus nidulans . Model representing interactionof CreA, CreB, CreC, CreD, HulA, ApyA, RcoA, SsnF, SnfA and Glc7-Reg1 complex in CCR. CreD alongInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 7 of 23with HulA/ApyA is required in conjugating ubiquitin and CreA. ApyA forms strong protein-proteininteraction with HulA than CreB [ 8,57]. However CreD and ApyA are both present in A. nidulans.CreB-CreC complex is required to remove ubiquitin from CreA–Ub complex so that CreA can repressCCR subjected genes. CreB helps in the removal of ubiquitin from CreA to prevent degradation ofCreA by proteasome [ 8,78,79]. The role of RcoA and SsnF in binding with the promoters of glucoserepressible genes along with CreA is still unclear [ 75,80]. However the deletion of RcoA and SsnF canbe lethal for A. nidulans [74]. SnfA and SchA can play synergistic or overlapping role in regulatingCreA derepression [31].3. Key Regulators of CCR in Filamentous FungiThe role of the key regulators of CCR has already been brieﬂy described above. However, we willtry to provide a comprehensive description of these factors here.3.1. CreA/Cre1In most fungal species, the zinc ﬁnger transcription factor CreA/CRE1/Mig1 mediates differentaspects of CCR [ 5,80–82].CreA has been identiﬁed in many ﬁlamentous fungi such as Metarhiziumanisopliae ,Sclerotinia sclerotiorum ,B. cinerea ,Neurospora crassa and Cochliobolus carbonum [83–85].CreA -encoded protein contains zinc ﬁnger of Cys2-His2 class, common S (T) PXX motifs, alaninerich region and acidic domain [ 70,86]. It binds to 50-SYGGRG-30on DNA, and the amino acid sequenceof its zinc ﬁnger region is similar to yeast Mig1, and Wilms tumor suppressor protein [15].CreA proteins of all fungi contain a highly conserved region of 42 amino acids which isrich in proline, threonine and serine residues [ 87]. In T. reesei and Aspergillus spp. a conservedregion of CreA was identiﬁed to be essential for growth on carbon, lipid and nitrogen sources [ 5].InA. nidulans ,CreA plays a particular role in regulating the utilization of arabinan, xylan, ethanoland proline [ 5,16]. CreA mutants of A. nidulans , show changes in enzyme activity, depression ofprimary metabolism and metabolite proﬁle change [ 88]. In ﬁlamentous fungi, CreA is also relatedto important pathways of growth and polarity. CreA of A. nidulans binds to the promoter regionat the DNA sequence 50-SYGGRG-30of xlnA and xlnD (xylanase encoding genes) and causes theirdirect repression [ 15]. The expression of xlnR, which encodes the major inducer of xylanases, and tosome extent cellulase-encoding genes (Table 2) is also repressed by CreA [4,15,89]. All genes which areregulated by xlnR can be indirectly repressed by CreA [ 86]. The transcription factors, AraR and ARA1for arabinose utilization genes (Table 2), can also be repressed by CreA [5,86,90].CreA mediates various alternative carbon-utilizing systems, because it is a global regulator ofCCR. The gene AreA , encodes a protein AreA that is a positive regulator and causes ammoniumderepression [ 91]. In case of any loss of functional mutation in AreA , the strain will be unable to growonD-glucose and alternative nitrogen sources since the enzymes dependent on ammonium will not beexpressed during ammonium repression. However, in a few instances proline and acetamide act asnitrogen and carbon sources and their enzymes are subjected to ammonium repression and CCR [ 91].In the absence of D-glucose, the AreA mutant strains can grow on media containing acetamide orproline as the only sources of carbon and nitrogen, respectively, but they cannot grow on D-glucose asthe only source of carbon and nitrogen [ 91,92]. It can therefore be supposed that carbon and nitrogenrepression are closely related phenomena.CreA regulation, both at transcriptional and post transcriptional levels, need further attentionas little work has been done on this aspect [ 5,15,93,94]. Ubiquitination and phosphorylation causepre- and post-transcriptional modiﬁcation which may control the localization as well as function ofCreA [ 5]. Phosphorylation of Cre1 in T. reesei is essential for DNA binding though Cre1 is not apparentlyregulated by Snf1 homolog [ 95,96]. For this, we propose that there are multiple binding motifs amongCreA /Cre1 target promoters e.g., in A. nidulans alcR promoter there are nine CreA binding sites [ 97,98],also, H. jecorina xyr1 promoter possesses ten Cre1 binding sites [ 99]. Deletion of CreA binding sites fromInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 8 of 23aguA promoter of A. niger enhanced the gene expression [ 100]. However, it was not predicable thatthe promoters only need the presence of 50-SYGGRG-30motif or it may require additional regulatoryfactors necessary for binding solely to CreA/Cre1 . InN. crassa , Cre1 not only binds to the promoterregion motifs but also competes with the regulatory factors during cellulolytic conditions [ 101,102].The strains, which have lost functional mutation of Cre1 homologs, show morphological problemswhile growing on carbon-rich sources. Various studies regarding the role of CreA have been conﬁnedto the transcription level regulation during CCR. However some studies suggest a more cell-wideregulatory role of this transcription factor [ 4,11,93]. Recent observations have revealed that CreA isnot a direct target of CreB, though CreA is a phosphorylated protein but there was no evidence of itsubiquitination [ 73]. Despite this, the molecular mechanisms of CreA regarding its repression activityas well as CreB–CreC interaction with this regulatory setup still remain largely ambiguous [3].Table 2. Transcription factors of ﬁlamentous fungi responsible for carbon source utilization.Transcription Factor Major Role FungiCreA/CRE1 CCR Aspergillus spp., N. crassa ,Trichoderma spp., etc. [70]BglR/COL-26Sugar sensing and regulation ofglucosidase expressionN. crassa ,Trichoderma reesei [103–105].VIB1C-derepression, may also playrole in cellulases inductionN. crassa [104]CLR-1/ClrA Cellulose utilization N. crassa ,Aspergillus spp. [106–108].CLR-2/ClrB/ManR Cellulose utilizationN. crassa ,Aspergillus spp., Talaromyces cellulolyticus ,Peniciulium oxalicum [106–108]ACE2, ACE3 Cellulose utilization T. reesei [109,110]McmA Cellulase regulation A. nidulans [111]ACE1 Cellulase repression T. reesei [112,113]XlnR/XLR1/XYR1 Hemi-cellulose utilizationAspergillus spp., Fusarium spp., Trichoderma spp., M.oryzae ,Protubera canescens, N. crassa ,T. cellulolyticus [89]WC-1/BLR1, WC-2/BLR2 Hemi-cellulose utilization Trichoderma spp., N. crassa [114–116]HCR-1 Hemi-cellulase repressor N. crassa [117]AraR L-Arabinose utilization Aspergillus spp. [118,119]ARA1 L-Arabinose utilization M. oryzae [120]AmyR Starch utilization Aspergillus spp. [121,122]MalR Maltose utilization Aspergillus spp. [123,124]ClbR Cellobiose utilization Aspergillus aculeatus [125,126]GalR D-Galactose utilization A. nidulans [127,128]GalX D-Galactose utilization Aspergillus spp. [129]GaaR Galacturonic acid utilization B. cinerea ,Aspergillus niger [130,131].GaaX Galacturonic acid repressor A. niger [131]XPP1 Xylanases repressor T. reesei [132,133]HAP complexCarbohydrate-Active enZymesregulation (CAZy regulation)Aspergillus spp., Trichoderma spp., N. crassa [134–137]RhaR L-Rhamnose utilization Aspergillus spp. [138,139]InuR Inulin utilization A. niger [140,141]3.2. CreB and CreCUbiquitination plays an important role during CCR by altering protein function duringmacromolecular assembly. Ubiquitin acts as a marker either by modifying the function of a proteinor tagging it for destruction by speciﬁc proteasome [ 79]. Deubiquitination enzymes activate speciﬁctranscription factors by targeting their domains. The ubiquitination ligases and deubiquitinationenzymes interact with each other and control the transcription factors of CCR mechanism [ 5,16,73].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 9 of 23CreB ofA. nidulans is a homologue of human UBH1 gene, which is involved in ubiquitination duringCCR [78]. CreB contains 6 DUB coiled regions for recognition of the substrate, and 4 PEST sequenceswhich act as a signal for proteolysis [ 78,79]. However, CreC is a regulatory gene which encodes a630 amino acid polypeptide rich in proline near its N-terminus and has ﬁve WD 40 repeat motifs at itsC-terminus [ 3,142]. Protein-protein interaction is facilitated by the WD 40 repeat regions, which form apropeller-like region [143].CreC has a regulatory mechanism in multicellular eukaryotes, which is suggested by thepresence of CreB and CreC homologues in mouse and humans but not in S. cerevisiae [81,142].Co-immunoprecipitation experiments have shown that CreB and CreC proteins function together as acomplex during repression or derepression condition. It was proved that CreB-CreC deubiquitinationcomplex has its role in CCR as deletion of Cre2 and CreB inT. reesei and A. oryzae respectively enhancedthe secretion levels of hydrolytic enzymes [ 13,144]. The CreB-CreC deubiquitination complex eradicatesubiquitin moieties from CreA and other substrates thereby modifying the protein [ 79]. However,CreB overexpression partially compensates the deﬁciency of CreC, but overexpression of CreC doesnot compensate for CreB deﬁciency suggesting that CreB acts downstream of CreC protein. Wefound that CreC inMagnaporthe oryzae plays an important role in vegetative growth, conidiation andappressorium formation. CreC mutation hinders penetration and reduces infection, which results inattenuated virulence. CreC mutants represented sensitivity towards allyl alcohol in the presence ofglucose and utilization of secondary carbon sources was not fully repressed by 2-deoxyglucose, whichaffects CCR. The genes encoding cell wall degradation enzymes such as feruloyl esterase, -glucosidaseand exoglucanase in MoCreC mutants were also upregulated. Therefore, it can be depicted that CreC,in addition to gene regulation, plays a much wider role in growth, development as well as virulence ofthe fungus [3].3.3. CreDCreD is involved in the ubiquitination of CreA after which CreB-CreC DUB complex comesinto play (Figure 3) [ 8].HulA is a homologue of Rsp5 (ubiquitin ligase of yeast) in A. nidulans andso, CreA might be ubiquitinated by CreD-HulA ubiquitination ligase complex which may changethe conformity of CreA protein in order to be targeted by proteasomes (Figure 3) [ 8,73]. Boase andKelly [ 8] found another gene, ApyA , which is relatively similar to CreD but shows stronger interactionwith HulA than CreD. Therefore, it can be supposed that ApyA is a result of gene duplication duringevolution and it could possibly play its role in ubiquitination (Figure 3).CreD may act opposite to the CreB-CreC DUB complex as CreD34 suppresses some mutantphenotypes of CreB and CreC [8]. In a diploid strain CreD34 is recessive to CreD ; however, geneticanalysis depicts that CreD has a close connection with CreC on chromosome11 [145]. CreD encrypts aprotein that has arrestin N and arrestin C domains, two PXY motifs and one PPXY motif when clonedby complementation and physically analyzed [ 8]. The PPXY and PXY motifs are respectively rich inproline and basic sequences. These features are found in transcription factors and are actively involvedin protein-protein binding [ 146–148]. The mutation in CreD34 inhibited other aspects of mutationalCreB and CreC phenotypes, such that the derepression of genes alcA and facA as analyzed throughthe allyl alcohol and ﬂuoroacetate sensitivity found in CreC 27 strains [ 145]. The CreD34 mutantstrain shows greater resistance to ﬂouroacetamide and glucose than the wild type and this seems thatCreD34 mutant has higher repression of CCR enzymes. The suppression of the CreB and CreC mutantphenotypes by CreD34 concludes that CreD has implications in reverse process to deubiquitinationrole of the CreB-CreC protein complex [8].3.4. Snf1Phosphatases and protein kinases help in the addition or removal of phosphate group to theirtarget proteins and regulate their structure, function, and localization. They can play a major role inmany processes such as functional regulation, metabolism, cell fate and secretion [ 71]. The proteinInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 10 of 23kinase Snf1 stands for “Sucrose Non Fermenting”, which was named after a mutant unable to fermentsucrose but still can ferment glucose [ 40,149]. The gene Snf1 was ﬁrst studied in S. cerevisiae , which is ahomologue of the mammalian cyclic Adenosine Mono Phosphate (cAMP)-dependent Protein KinaseAMPK [ 150]. It plays a signiﬁcant role in sensing energy status, and its homologs are presentin all eukaryotes such as fungi, plants, and animals [ 150,151].Snf1 controls CCR, by encoding aprotein kinase that functions in the glucose derepression pathway in S. cerevisiae , while in some plantpathogenic fungi it plays vital roles in regulating and repressing the Cell Wall Degrading Enzymes(CWDE) [6,23,152].Snf1 causes phosphorylation of its downstream repressor Mig1 and also helps in the derepressionof glucose-repressed genes during low level of glucose [ 152]. Therefore, when glucose is depletedfrom the medium, Snf1 releases the CCR. On the other hand, a high level of phosphorylated glucoseinactivates snf1, making it unable to phosphorylate Mig1, and Mig1 will remain occupied in thenucleus [ 5,70]. Interestingly, Casein kinase II causes the phosphorylation of Cre1 transcription factor ofT. reesei at Ser241 within its acidic domain; this is an essential post-transcriptional modiﬁcation for DNAbinding and repression by Cre1 [ 95]. However, Snf1 homolog of Hypocrea jecorina (T. reesei ) was unableto phosphorylate Cre1 homologue [ 96]. Also, there is no solid evidence of direct phosphorylation ofCreA in A. nidulans , but some ﬁndings propose that kinases can play an important role in controllingCreA cellular localization [ 5]. Even under glucose-rich conditions, deletion of two kinases, SchA(homologue of S. cerevisiae Sch9 ) and SnfA (homologue of Snf1 ), keeps CreA occupied within thenucleus [31].The Snf1 ortholog in U. maydis has functional similarity with Snf1 ofS. cerevisiae , and its mutantsurprisingly produced higher expressions of pectinases and endonucleases than the wild type underderepression conditions, which means that it negatively regulates these genes. In ﬁlamentous fungi,is still unclear whether there is a conserved mechanism for carbon catabolite derepression by Snf1 ;even if it exists, the Snf1 pathway may still control some developmental processes as well as the geneexpression of CWDEs [153].4. Chromatin Modiﬁcation and CCRGene regulation also involves a second level of complexity ruled by epigenetics and access tochromatin (such as acetylation, methylation, and histone modiﬁcation) [ 154–156]. Successful CCRoperations require proper access to heterochromatin in order to control gene expression, generallyorganized through CCAAT box (Hap complex), acetylation levels and methylation [ 157–160]. The Hapcomplex is believed to be signiﬁcant for the generation of an open chromatin structure, which enablesfull transcriptional activation of certain promoters [ 137,161]. The CCAAT-binding complex was ﬁrstdescribed in S. cerevisiae , and it consists of Hap2, Hap3, Hap4, and Hap5 proteins. Their homologueshave been identiﬁed in different ﬁlamentous fungi such as N. crassa (HAP5), T. reesei (HAP2, 3, 5) andA. nidulans (AnCF) [ 134]. In ﬁlamentous fungi, CCAAT sequences lie in the promoters of respiratorygenes, cellulase, hemicellulose and ligninolytic encoding genes [162].InCbh2 ofT. reesei , the presence of this sequence in the promoter region was found to benecessary for gene expression [ 135]. Furthermore, CRE1, HAP complex, and an unknown GTAATAbinding protein affects nucleosome positioning, and inﬂuences the accessibility to the TATA box fortranscription initiation of cbh2 (Table 2) [ 161]. During repression conditions, CreA/CRE1 directlyaffects chromatin structure (acetylation, methylation, nucleosome position, packaging etc.) in T. reeseiand A. nidulans [163–166]. CRE1 of T. reesei organizes the local chromatin structure or nucleosomepositioning in the xyr1 promoter as well as in the cellulases cbh1and cbh2 during repressing conditions;however its loss results in less dense chromatin structure [ 164–166]. In A. nidulans CreA was foundto cause chromatin remodeling through histone deacetylation [ 163]. Gene expression is also affectedby acetylation levels, which inﬂuence the access to chromatin. Consistent with this, deletion of thehistone acetyltransferase, GCN5, in T. reesei severely affects the acetylation levels, which results inimpaired growth, morphogenesis, and expression of cellulase-encoding genes [167].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 11 of 235. Impact of CCR Components on Fungal BehaviorThe components of CCR are integrated for regulation of fungal growth, development,and pathogenesis, where glucose status is one signal that conveys information about the environment.5.1. Regulation of Fungal GrowthCell-wide regulatory role of CCR is most extensively studied among Aspergillus spp., T. reeseiand N. crassa [16,168].CreA has signiﬁcant inﬂuence in fungal development and growth as it reducesthe activity of b-galactosidase in A. nidulans . Ilyés et al. [ 169] have observed that the growth rateofA. nidulans is dependent on CCR. Although in bacteria and S. cerevisiae growth rate and CCRare dependent on application of glucose dilutions, which has considerable effect on the growthrate, but the Crabtree effect in yeast and CCR mechanism of bacteria are different from ﬁlamentousfungi [ 170–172]. CreA mRNA represented an intricate expression proﬁle during northern blot analysis.Monosaccharides when added to carbon deﬁcient culture of A. nidulans stimulated CreA transcriptformation within a short period of time. The above ﬁndings suggest that, in order to achieve CCR,a higher transcript level of CreA is essential and depends on glucose transportation as well as productofCreB gene at least partially [ 173].Snf1 plays a signiﬁcant role in the growth, development andsporulation of yeast, depending on different nutrient signals [ 174]. Similarly, the homolog of Snf1 inM. oryzae (MoSnf1 ) functionally restored the growth defects of yeast Snf1 mutant [153].5.2. Regulation/Utilization of Non-Glucose SourcesFilamentous fungi degrade plant cell wall polymers such as cellulose, hemicellulose and ligninby secreting hydrolytic enzymes [ 101,110,175–179]. The production of these enzymes is reduced orsuppressed when glucose is easily available in the environment due to suppression or repression ofgenes encoding these enzymes [ 82]. Therefore, during enormous availability of glucose, the CWDEproduction is repressed by CCR [ 104]. CWDE activity is under control of glucose repression inCochliobolus carbonum [85,180]. Deletion of ccSnf1 (Snf1 homolog) in C. carbonum resulted in downregulation of CWDE [ 180]. Interestingly, deleting FoSnf1 in vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporumproduced similar results [ 181]. In addition to regulating gene transcription, Snf1 also regulatesthe transport and storage of carbohydrates and fatty acids through phosphorylation of relatedproteins [182].There are lots of reports on CreA regulation of CWDEs [ 85,153,180,183].CreA homologue inF. oxysporum regulates the CWDEs and isocitrate lyase production [ 67,70,184]. In T. reesei andA. nidulans ,CreA /Cre1 cause gene regulation in xylan, xylose, arabinose, ethanol and proline utilization [ 5,16,185].The transcriptional regulation of genes by CreA is in a “double-lock” manner [ 183,186]. The genes forethanol regulation in A. nidulans consist of two major structural genes aldA (aldehyde dehydrogenase),alcA (alcohol dehydrogenase) and transacting regulatory gene alcR [97,187–189]. AlcR is directlyrepressed by CreA and alcA and aldA are repressed when CreA competes with alcR binding promotersequence [98,186,190,191].Likewise, CreA represses the xylanolytic system by direct repression of xlnr and xlnA ,which are pathway-speciﬁc regulator and structural genes respectively [ 15,89,185].A. nigerhas four genes involved in xylose regulation, which are faeA (feruloyl esterase gene), xlnB(endoxylanase gene), aguA (-glucuronidase gene) and xlnD (-xylosidase gene). The xylanolyticgenes are generally repressed in the wild type strains while CreA mutants show higher xyloseaccumulations [15,89,185] .T. reesei (H. jecorina );Cre1 represses the cellulose degrading enzymesby binding the cellobiohydrolase 1 (cbh1) promoter region, and also represses xylanase activity bybinding to the xyn1 promoter [15,99,164,185,192–194] .XprG is a transcriptional activator of extracellularprotease, PrtA. However, production of extracellular protease remains unaltered following thesupplementation of exogenous protein in the medium, irrespective of carbon status. Extracellularprotein level increases in a carbon-deﬁcient medium only due to mutations in CreA ,CreB ,CreC [11].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 12 of 235.3. VirulenceThe factors involved in CCR of ﬁlamentous fungi may directly or indirectly play their rolesin pathogenicity on insects, plants and animals. In order to penetrate and enter the host plant cell,fungi release chitinases, esterases and proteinases that degrade the cells cuticle [ 195,196]. Virulence inentomopathogenic fungi can be increased by over expressing the chitinase Bbchit1 and subtilisin-likeprotease Pr1A [ 197]. Enzymes for cuticle degradation in Metarhizium anisopliae might be regulated byCRR1 which is equivalent in function to CreA ofA. nidulans [198,199]. CreA from Beauveria bassiananamed BbCre1 is involved in carbon source uptake, conidiation, and can impact on virulence byregulating penetration mechanism [ 200]. Severe symptoms may result due to overexpression of CCRencoding genes in Alternaria citri (black rot of citrus fruit) [ 1]. Wild type strain of A. citri only showedsymptoms inside the central region of fruit, while the overexpression mutant of A. citri (AcCreA )produced severe symptoms in the central region as well as juice sac areas [1].CreA homologue in F. oxysporum functions along with F-box protein (Frp1) in order toregulate carbon utilization, and most importantly required for the fungal pathogenicity [ 67,70,184].Cre1 mutation in F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici can restore pathogenicity defects of Frp1 deletionmutant (because Frp1 is required for pathogenicity of F. oxysporum f. sp. Lycopersici on tomato).The Frp1 mutant does not express the cell wall degradation genes and ICL1 (a gene encoding anenzyme for assimilation of C2 carbon sources) [ 184]. This suggests that both Frp1 and Cre1 proteinsare signiﬁcant for regulating transcription of CCR genes. In M. oryzae , there are three mediatorsof CCR that are inhibitor proteins, namely Nmr1-3, sugar sensor Tps1 and multidrug and toxinextrusion (MATE)—family pump mdt1. The activities of MATE-Family, Nmr1-3 , and Tps1 are crucialfor glucose metabolism during the infection process. Glucose-6-phosphate is sensed by Tps1, whichinactivates Nmr1-3 and initiates the CCR. Glucose assimilation is regulated by Mdt1 , which is alsoimportant for pathogenicity, sporulation and nutrient utilization. The mutational studies of all the threemediators showed early expression of CWDEs, which suggests their critical role during pathogenicityofM. oryzae [201,202].Deletion of nearly 21 genes except CreA ,XlnR , and Snf1 kinase homologs did not affect thevirulence in Alternaria brassicicola (necrotrophic fungal pathogen). A. brassicicola causes the black spotdisease of Brassicas. A. brassicicola expresses CWDEs in a unique way as deletion of only XlnR butnotCreA ,Snf1 orSte12 can reduce the ability of glucose utilization [ 203].Verticilium dahliae (soil bornefungi causing vascular wilt) VdSnf1 is a sucrose non-fermenting 1 gene that regulates CCR. The VdSnf1mutant was unable to produce CWDEs, and had considerably reduced growth on galactose or pectinas compared to xylose, sucrose or glucose medium. Moreover, VdSnf1 is considered important forCCR and colonization of cotyledons, stem and roots of tomato and eggplant [ 204]. The pathogenicityofC. carbonum was also reduced on deletion of ccSnf1 (Snf1 homolog) [ 180]. The snf1 deletion mutantofM. oryzae (Dmosnf1) showed reduced pathogenicity, few and abnormally shaped conidia than thewild type which suggest that it plays vital role in sporulation and pathogenicity of M. oryzae [153].In almost all analyzed fungi, deletion of CreA can result in impaired colony morphology, with fewaerial hyphae and spores [ 102,205,206]. While CreA mutation in the case of P . chrysogenum andF. oxysporum can be lethal for these fungi [ 3,207]. We have also observed that M. oryzae ,CreAnull mutants grow slower than the wild type in a glucose-independent manner, which suggestssome faults in CCR. The CCR defects were further supported by resistance of CreA mutants to2-deoxyglucose and inefﬁcient glucose transport. In addition, production of conidia was reduced,conidial germination and appressorium formation were delayed which resulted in less virulenceamong the mutants (non-published data). Recently, we found that MoCreC plays signiﬁcant role ingrowth, conidiation and pathogenicity of M. oryzae [3]. Currently, Beattie et al. [ 208] proposed a modelfor the role of CreA and disease progression of invasive aspergillosis, which describes that CCR in anenvironmental ﬁlamentous fungus is dispensable for the initiation of pulmonary infection but essentialfor infection maintenance and disease progression. They revealed that fungal ﬁtness and invasion ofmicroenvironment requires the support of CCR mediated genetic network in A. fumigatus .Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 13 of 236. Concluding RemarksCCR has optimized carbon utilization as an evolved trait in ﬁlamentous fungi [ 209]. CCR providesclues on how ﬁlamentous fungi cope with different nutrient situations. The genome machinery ofCCR may involve various factors such as CreA ,CreB ,CreC ,CreD ,HulA ,ApyA ,RcoA ,SsnF ,SchA andGlc7-Reg1 [ 8,40,73]. CreA activity is regulated via ubiquitination and deubiquitination [ 5]. Althoughthe roles of CreB, CreC and CreD are well established in relation to CreA activation, some ambiguitiesstill exist regarding the functions of HulA and ApyA in ubiquitination of CreA [ 73]. Formerly,it was accepted that CreB-CreC deubiquitination complex causes activation of CreA necessary for itsrepression [ 79]. However, recent studies revealed that CreA is not a direct target of CreB; instead,CreA is a differentially phosphorylated protein with no evidence of ubiquitination [ 73]. It will be ofimmense signiﬁcance to further investigate the link between CCR subjected genes and CCR complex(CreA, RcoA, SsnF) among the ﬁlamentous fungi. The role of SchA/SnfA in phosphorylating CreAand its movement towards the cytoplasm is not very convincing. Another very important aspectthat needs more attention in CCR of ﬁlamentous fungi is the role of Glc7-Reg1 in dephosphorylationand mobilization of CreA back to the nucleus. Gene regulation ruled by epigenetics adds anotherlevel of complexity controlled by factors such as acetylation, methylation, and histone modiﬁcationfor successful operation of CCR [ 155,156]. In the future, dissecting the operation of CCR at thetranscriptome, proteome and metabolome levels will be of fundamental importance to producevaluable insights for understanding CCR of ﬁlamentous fungi.Acknowledgments: The authors gratefully acknowledge NSFC (National Science Foundation of China) Grant(31571943) for ﬁnancial support.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. The authors declare that the research is beingconducted in the absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as a potentialconﬂict of interest.References1. Katoh, H.; Ohtani, K.; Yamamoto, H.; Akimitsu, K. Overexpression of a gene encoding a catabolite repressionelement in Alternaria citri causes severe symptoms of black rot in citrus fruit. Phytopathology 2007 ,97,557–563. [CrossRef] [PubMed]2. New, A.M.; Cerulus, B.; Govers, S.K.; Perez-Samper, G.; Zhu, B.; Boogmans, S.; Xavier, J.B.; Verstrepen, K.J.Different levels of catabolite repression optimize growth in stable and variable environments. PLoS Biol.2014 ,12, e1001764. [CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Matar, K.A.O.; Chen, X.; Chen, D.; Anjago, W.M.; Norvienyeku, J.; Lin, Y.; Chen, M.; Wang, Z.; Ebbole, D.J.;Lu, G. WD40-repeat protein MoCreC is essential for carbon repression and is involved in conidiation, growthand pathogenicity of Magnaporthe oryzae .Curr. Genet. 2017 ,63, 685–696. [CrossRef] [PubMed]4. Portnoy, T.; Margeot, A.; Linke, R.; Atanasova, L.; Fekete, E.; S ándor, E.; Hartl, L.; Karaffa, L.; Druzhinina, I.S.;Seiboth, B. The CRE1 carbon catabolite repressor of the fungus Trichoderma reesei : A master regulator ofcarbon assimilation. BMC Genom. 2011 ,12, 269. [CrossRef] [PubMed]5. Ries, L.N.; Beattie, S.R.; Espeso, E.A.; Cramer, R.A.; Goldman, G.H. Diverse regulation of the CreA carboncatabolite repressor in Aspergillus nidulans .Genet. 2016 ,203, 335–352. [CrossRef] [PubMed]6. Kayikci, Ö.; Nielsen, J. Glucose repression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .FEMS Yeast Res. 2015 ,15. [CrossRef][PubMed]7. Mogensen, J.; Nielsen, H.B.; Hofmann, G.; Nielsen, J. Transcription analysis using high-density micro-arraysofAspergillus nidulans wild-type and creA mutant during growth on glucose or ethanol. Fungal Genet. Biol.2006 ,43, 593–603. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8. Boase, N.A.; Kelly, J.M. A role for creD, a carbon catabolite repression gene from Aspergillus nidulans ,in ubiquitination. Mol. Microbiol. 2004 ,53, 929–940. [CrossRef] [PubMed]9. Georgakopoulos, P .; Lockington, R.A.; Kelly, J.M. SAGA complex components and acetate repression inAspergillus nidulans .G3 Genes Genom. Genet. 2012 ,2, 1357–1367. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 14 of 2310. Ichinose, S.; Tanaka, M.; Shintani, T.; Gomi, K. Improved -amylase production by Aspergillus oryzae aftera double deletion of genes involved in carbon catabolite repression. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2014 ,98,335–343. [CrossRef] [PubMed]11. Katz, M.E.; Bernardo, S.M.; Cheetham, B.F. The interaction of induction, repression and starvation in theregulation of extracellular proteases in Aspergillus nidulans : Evidence for a role for CreA in the response tocarbon starvation. Curr. Genet. 2008 ,54, 47. [CrossRef] [PubMed]12. OBrian, G.R.; Fakhoury, A.M.; Payne, G.A. Identiﬁcation of genes differentially expressed during aﬂatoxinbiosynthesis in Aspergillus ﬂavus and Aspergillus parasiticus .Fungal Genet. Biol. 2003 ,39, 118–127. [CrossRef]13. Hunter, A.; Morris, T.; Jin, B.; Saint, C.P .; Kelly, J. Deletion of creB in Aspergillus oryzae increases secretedhydrolytic enzyme activity. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2013 ,79, 5480–5487. [CrossRef] [PubMed]14. Amore, A.; Giacobbe, S.; Faraco, V . Regulation of cellulase and hemicellulase gene expression in fungi.Curr. Genom. 2013 ,14, 230–249. [CrossRef] [PubMed]15. Tamayo, E.N.; Villanueva, A.; Hasper, A.A.; de Graaff, L.H.; Ram ón, D.; Orejas, M. CreA mediates repressionof the regulatory gene xlnR which controls the production of xylanolytic enzymes in Aspergillus nidulans .Fungal Genet. Biol. 2008 ,45, 984–993. [CrossRef] [PubMed]16. Kubicek, C.P .; Mikus, M.; Schuster, A.; Schmoll, M.; Seiboth, B. Metabolic engineering strategies for theimprovement of cellulase production by Hypocrea jecorina .Biotechnol. Biofuels 2009 ,2, 19. [CrossRef][PubMed]17. Chen, Y.; Nielsen, J. Advances in metabolic pathway and strain engineering paving the way for sustainableproduction of chemical building blocks. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 2013 ,24, 965–972. [CrossRef] [PubMed]18. Dai, Z.; Liu, Y.; Guo, J.; Huang, L.; Zhang, X. Yeast synthetic biology for high-value metabolites.FEMS Yeast Res. 2015 ,15, 1–11. [CrossRef] [PubMed]19. Li, M.; Borodina, I. Application of synthetic biology for production of chemicals in yeast Saccharomycescerevisiae .FEMS Yeast Res 2015 ,15. [CrossRef]20. Broach, J.R. Nutritional control of growth and development in yeast. Genet. 2012 ,192, 73–105. [CrossRef][PubMed]21. Santangelo, G.M. Glucose signaling in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 2006 ,70, 253–282.[CrossRef] [PubMed]22. Weinhandl, K.; Winkler, M.; Glieder, A.; Camattari, A. Carbon source dependent promoters in yeasts.Microb. Cell Factor. 2014 ,13, 5. [CrossRef] [PubMed]23. Busti, S.; Coccetti, P .; Alberghina, L.; Vanoni, M. Glucose signaling-mediated coordination of cell growth andcell cycle in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Sensors 2010 ,10, 6195–6240. [CrossRef] [PubMed]24. Kim, J.-H.; Roy, A.; Jouandot, D.; Cho, K.H. The glucose signaling network in yeast. Biochim. Biophys.Acta-Gen. Subj. 2013 ,1830 , 5204–5210. [CrossRef] [PubMed]25. Peeters, K.; Thevelein, J.M. Glucose sensing and signal transduction in Saccharomyces cerevisiae . InMolecularMechanisms in Yeast Carbon Metab ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, German, 2014; pp. 21–56.26. Tarinejad, A. Glucose Signalling in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Agric. Commun. 2015 ,3, 7–15.27. Tamanoi, F. Ras signaling in yeast. Genes Cancer 2011 ,2, 210–215. [CrossRef] [PubMed]28. Colombo, S.; Paiardi, C.; Pardons, K.; Winderickx, J.; Martegani, E. Evidence for adenylate cyclase as ascaffold protein for Ras2–Ira interaction in Saccharomyces cerevisie .Cell. Signal. 2014 ,26, 1147–1154. [CrossRef][PubMed]29. Peeters, T.; Versele, M.; Thevelein, J.M. Directly from G to protein kinase A: The kelch repeat protein bypassof adenylate cyclase. Trends Biochem. Sci. 2007 ,32, 547–554. [CrossRef] [PubMed]30. Soulard, A.; Cremonesi, A.; Moes, S.; Schütz, F.; Jenö, P .; Hall, M.N. The rapamycin-sensitivephosphoproteome reveals that TOR controls protein kinase A toward some but not all substrates.Mol. Biol. Cell 2010 ,21, 3475–3486. [CrossRef] [PubMed]31. Brown, N.A.; de Gouvea, P .F.; Krohn, N.G.; Savoldi, M.; Goldman, G.H. Functional characterisation of thenon-essential protein kinases and phosphatases regulating Aspergillus nidulans hydrolytic enzyme production.Biotechnol. Biofuels 2013 ,6, 91. [CrossRef] [PubMed]32. Ozcan, S.; Johnston, M. Two different repressors collaborate to restrict expression of the yeast glucosetransporter genes HXT2 and HXT4 to low levels of glucose. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1996 ,16, 5536–5545. [CrossRef][PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 15 of 2333. Palomino, A.; Herrero, P .; Moreno, F. Tpk3 and Snf1 protein kinases regulate Rgt1 association withSaccharomyces cerevisiae HXK2 promoter. Nucleic Acids Res. 2006 ,34, 1427–1438. [CrossRef] [PubMed]34. Ahuatzi, D.; Riera, A.; Pel áez, R.; Herrero, P .; Moreno, F. Hxk2 regulates the phosphorylation state of Mig1and therefore its nucleocytoplasmic distribution. J. Biol. Chem. 2007 ,282, 4485–4493. [CrossRef] [PubMed]35. Yao, Y.; Tsuchiyama, S.; Yang, C.; Bulteau, A.L.; He, C.; Robison, B.; Tsuchiya, M.; Miller, D.; Briones, V .;Tar, K. Proteasomes, Sir2, and Hxk2 form an interconnected aging network that impinges on theAMPK/Snf1-regulated transcriptional repressor Mig1. PLoS Genet. 2015 ,11, e1004968. [CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Kim, J.-H.; Johnston, M. Two glucose-sensing pathways converge on Rgt1 to regulate expression of glucosetransporter genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .J. Biol. Chem. 2006 ,281, 26144–26149. [CrossRef] [PubMed]37. Roy, A.; Kim, J.-H. Endocytosis and vacuolar degradation of the yeast cell surface glucose sensors Rgt2 andSnf3. J. Biol. Chem. 2016 ,291, 14913. [CrossRef] [PubMed]38. Vega, M.; Riera, A.; Fern ández-Cid, A.; Herrero, P .; Moreno, F. Hexokinase 2 is an intracellular glucose sensorof yeast cells that maintains the structure and activity of Mig1 protein repressor complex. J. Biol. Chem. 2016 ,291, 7267–7285. [CrossRef] [PubMed]39. Rolland, F.; Winderickx, J.; Thevelein, J.M. Glucose-sensing and-signalling mechanisms in yeast. FEMS Y east Res.2002 ,2, 183–201. [CrossRef] [PubMed]40. Welkenhuysen, N.; Borgqvist, J.; Backman, M.; Bendrioua, L.; Goksör, M.; Adiels, C.B.; Cvijovic, M.;Hohmann, S. Single-cell study links metabolism with nutrient signaling and reveals sources of variability.BMC Syst. Biol. 2017 ,11, 59. [CrossRef] [PubMed]41. Otterstedt, K.; Larsson, C.; Bill, R.M.; Ståhlberg, A.; Boles, E.; Hohmann, S.; Gustafsson, L. Switching themode of metabolism in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae .EMBO Rep. 2004 ,5, 532–537. [CrossRef] [PubMed]42. Tabba, S.; Mangat, S.; McCartney, R.; Schmidt, M.C. PP1 phosphatase-binding motif in Reg1 protein ofSaccharomyces cerevisiae is required for interaction with both the PP1 phosphatase Glc7 and the Snf1 proteinkinase. Cell. Signal. 2010 ,22, 1013–1021. [CrossRef] [PubMed]43. Ruiz, A.; Xu, X.; Carlson, M. Roles of two protein phosphatases, Reg1-Glc7 and Sit4, and glycogen synthesisin regulation of SNF1 protein kinase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2011 ,108, 6349–6354. [CrossRef] [PubMed]44. Mayer, F.V .; Heath, R.; Underwood, E.; Sanders, M.J.; Carmena, D.; McCartney, R.R.; Leiper, F.C.; Xiao, B.;Jing, C.; Walker, P .A. ADP regulates SNF1, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae homolog of AMP-activated proteinkinase. Cell Metab. 2011 ,14, 707–714. [CrossRef] [PubMed]45. Vincent, O.; Kuchin, S.; Hong, S.-P .; Townley, R.; Vyas, V .K.; Carlson, M. Interaction of the Srb10 kinase withSip4, a transcriptional activator of gluconeogenic genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Mol. Cell. Biol. 2001 ,21,5790–5796. [CrossRef] [PubMed]46. Ahuatzi, D.; Herrero, P .; De, L.C.T.; Moreno, F. The glucose-regulated nuclear localization of hexokinase 2 inSaccharomyces cerevisiae is Mig1-dependent. J. Biol. Chem. 2004 ,279, 14440–14446. [CrossRef] [PubMed]47. Papamichos-Chronakis, M.; Petrakis, T.; Ktistaki, E.; Topalidou, I.; Tzamarias, D. Cti6, a PHD domain protein,bridges the Cyc8-Tup1 corepressor and the SAGA coactivator to overcome repression at GAL1. Mol. Cell2002 ,9, 1297–1305. [CrossRef]48. Papamichos-Chronakis, M.; Gligoris, T.; Tzamarias, D. The Snf1 kinase controls glucose repression in yeastby modulating interactions between the Mig1 repressor and the Cyc8-Tup1 co-repressor. EMBO Rep. 2004 ,5,368–372. [CrossRef] [PubMed]49. Madi, L.; McBride, S.A.; Bailey, L.A.; Ebbole, D.J. rco-3, a gene involved in glucose transport and conidiationinNeurospora crassa .Genetics 1997 ,146, 499–508. [PubMed]50. Flipphi, M.; van de Vondervoort, P .J.; Ruijter, G.J.; Visser, J.; Arst, H.N.; Felenbok, B. Onset of CarbonCatabolite Repression in Aspergillus nidulans . Parallel involvement of hexokinase and GLUCOKINASE insugar signaling. J. Biol. Chem. 2003 ,278, 11849–11857. [CrossRef] [PubMed]51. Bernardo, S.M.; Gray, K.-A.; Todd, R.B.; Cheetham, B.F.; Katz, M.E. Characterization of regulatorynon-catalytic hexokinases in Aspergillus nidulans .Mol. Genet. Genom. 2007 ,277, 519–532. [CrossRef][PubMed]52. Doehlemann, G.; Berndt, P .; Hahn, M. Different signalling pathways involving a G protein, cAMP and aMAP kinase control germination of Botrytis cinerea conidia. Mol. Microbiol. 2006 ,59, 821–835. [CrossRef][PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 16 of 2353. Lafon, A.; Seo, J.-A.; Han, K.-H.; Yu, J.-H.; d’Enfert, C. The heterotrimeric G-protein GanB ( )-SfaD ( )-GpgA() is a carbon source sensor involved in early cAMP-dependent germination in Aspergillus nidulans .Genetics2005 ,171, 71–80. [CrossRef] [PubMed]54. Zuber, S.; Hynes, M.J.; Andrianopoulos, A. The G-protein -subunit GasC plays a major role in germinationin the dimorphic fungus Penicillium marneffei .Genetics 2003 ,164, 487–499. [PubMed]55. Xue, C.; Bahn, Y.-S.; Cox, G.M.; Heitman, J. G protein-coupled receptor Gpr4 senses amino acids and activatesthe cAMP-PKA pathway in Cryptococcus neoformans .Mol. Biol. Cell 2006 ,17, 667–679. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Alspaugh, J.A.; Perfect, J.R.; Heitman, J. Cryptococcus neoformans mating and virulence are regulated by theG-protein subunit GPA1 and cAMP . Genes Dev. 1997 ,11, 3206–3217. [CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Affeldt, K.J.; Brodhagen, M.; Keller, N.P . Aspergillus oxylipin signaling and quorum sensing pathwaysdepend on G protein-coupled receptors. Toxins 2012 ,4, 695–717. [CrossRef] [PubMed]58. Föge, M.; Heinekamp, T.; Brakhage, A. G protein-coupled receptors of the human-pathogenic fungusAspergillus fumigatus .Mycoses 2012 ,55, 141.59. Brown, N.A.; Dos Reis, T.F.; Ries, L.N.A.; Caldana, C.; Mah, J.H.; Yu, J.H.; Macdonald, J.M.; Goldman, G.H.G-protein coupled receptor-mediated nutrient sensing and developmental control in Aspergillus nidulans .Mol. Microbiol. 2015 ,98, 420–439. [CrossRef] [PubMed]60. Li, L.; Borkovich, K.A. GPR-4 is a predicted G-protein-coupled receptor required for carbon source-dependentasexual growth and development in Neurospora crassa .Eukaryot. Cell 2006 ,5, 1287–1300. [CrossRef] [PubMed]61. Li, L.; Wright, S.J.; Krystofova, S.; Park, G.; Borkovich, K.A. Heterotrimeric G protein signaling in ﬁlamentousfungi. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 2007 ,61, 423–452. [CrossRef] [PubMed]62. De Souza, W.R.; Morais, E.R.; Krohn, N.G.; Savoldi, M.; Goldman, M.H.S.; Rodrigues, F.; Caldana, C.;Semelka, C.T.; Tikunov, A.P .; Macdonald, J.M. Identiﬁcation of metabolic pathways inﬂuenced by theG-protein coupled receptors GprB and GprD in Aspergillus nidulans .PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e62088. [CrossRef][PubMed]63. Krijgsheld, P .; Bleichrodt, R.; Van Veluw, G.; Wang, F.; Müller, W.; Dijksterhuis, J.; Wösten, H. Developmentin Aspergillus. Stud. Mycol. 2013 ,74, 1–29. [CrossRef] [PubMed]64. Fuller, K.K.; Rhodes, J.C. Protein kinase A and fungal virulence: A sinister side to a conserved nutrientsensing pathway. Virulence 2012 ,3, 109–121. [CrossRef] [PubMed]65. Fuller, K.K.; Richie, D.L.; Feng, X.; Krishnan, K.; Stephens, T.J.; Wikenheiser-Brokamp, K.A.; Askew, D.S.;Rhodes, J.C. Divergent Protein Kinase A isoforms co-ordinately regulate conidial germination, carbohydratemetabolism and virulence in Aspergillus fumigatus .Mol. Microbiol. 2011 ,79, 1045–1062. [CrossRef] [PubMed]66. Roy, P .; Lockington, R.A.; Kelly, J.M. CreA-mediated repression in Aspergillus nidulans does not requiretranscriptional auto-regulation, regulated intracellular localisation or degradation of CreA. Fungal Genet. Biol.2008 ,45, 657–670. [CrossRef] [PubMed]67. Fleck, C.B.; Brock, M. Aspergillus fumigatus catalytic glucokinase and hexokinase: Expression analysis andimportance for germination, growth, and conidiation. Eukaryot. Cell 2010 ,9, 1120–1135. [CrossRef] [PubMed]68. Madi, L.; Ebbole, D.J.; White, B.T.; Yanofsky, C. Mutants of Neurospora crassa that alter gene expression andconidia development. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1994 ,91, 6226–6230. [CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Jørgensen, H.; Kristensen, J.B.; Felby, C. Enzymatic conversion of lignocellulose into fermentable sugars:Challenges and opportunities. Biofuels Bioprod. Bioreﬁn. 2007 ,1, 119–134. [CrossRef]70. Brown, N.A.; Ries, L.N.A.; Goldman, G.H. How nutritional status signalling coordinates metabolism andlignocellulolytic enzyme secretion. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2014 ,72, 48–63. [CrossRef] [PubMed]71. Ubersax, J.A.; Ferrell, J.E., Jr. Mechanisms of speciﬁcity in protein phosphorylation. Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol.2007 ,8, 530–541. [CrossRef] [PubMed]72. Assis, L.J.; Ries, L.N.A.; Savoldi, M.; Reis, T.F.; Brown, N.A.; Goldman, G.H. Aspergillus nidulans proteinkinase A plays an important role in cellulase production. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2015 ,8, 213. [CrossRef][PubMed]73. Alam, M.A.; Kamlangdee, N.; Kelly, J.M. The CreB deubiquitinating enzyme does not directly target theCreA repressor protein in Aspergillus nidulans .Curr. Genet. 2017 ,63, 647–667. [CrossRef] [PubMed]74. García, I.; Mathieu, M.; Nikolaev, I.; Felenbok, B.; Scazzocchio, C. Roles of the Aspergillus nidulans homologuesof Tup1 and Ssn6 in chromatin structure and cell viability. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2008 ,289, 146–154. [CrossRef][PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 17 of 2375. Hicks, J.; Lockington, R.A.; Strauss, J.; Dieringer, D.; Kubicek, C.P .; Kelly, J.; Keller, N. RcoA has pleiotropiceffects on Aspergillus nidulans cellular development. Mol. Microbiol. 2001 ,39, 1482–1493. [CrossRef] [PubMed]76. Yamashiro, C.T.; Ebbole, D.J.; Lee, B.-U.; Brown, R.E.; Bourland, C.; Madi, L.; Yanofsky, C. Characterizationof rco-1 of Neurospora crassa , a pleiotropic gene affecting growth and development that encodes a homologof Tup1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae .Mol. Cell. Biol. 1996 ,16, 6218–6228. [CrossRef] [PubMed]77. Lee, K.; Ebbole, D.J. Tissue-Speciﬁc Repression of Starvation and Stress Responses of the Neurospora crassacon-10Gene Is Mediated by RCO1. Fungal Genet. Biol. 1998 ,23, 269–278. [CrossRef] [PubMed]78. Lockington, R.A.; Kelly, J.M. Carbon catabolite repression in Aspergillus nidulans involves deubiquitination.Mol. Microbiol. 2001 ,40, 1311–1321. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Lockington, R.A.; Kelly, J.M. The WD40-repeat protein CreC interacts with and stabilizes the deubiquitinatingenzyme CreB in vivo in Aspergillus nidulans .Mol. Microbiol. 2002 ,43, 1173–1182. [CrossRef] [PubMed]80. Cupertino, F.B.; Virgilio, S.; Freitas, F.Z.; de Souza Candido, T.; Bertolini, M.C. Regulation of glycogenmetabolism by the CRE-1, RCO-1 and RCM-1 proteins in Neurospora crassa . The role of CRE-1 as the centraltranscriptional regulator. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2015 ,77, 82–94. [CrossRef] [PubMed]81. Alam, M.A.; Kelly, J.M. Proteins interacting with CreA and CreB in the carbon catabolite repression networkinAspergillus nidulans .Curr. Genet. 2017 ,63, 669–683. [CrossRef] [PubMed]82. Khosravi, C.; Benocci, T.; Battaglia, E.; Benoit, I.; de Vries, R.P . Chapter one-sugar catabolism in Aspergillusand other fungi related to the utilization of plant biomass. Adv. Appl. Microbiol. 2015 ,90, 1–28. [PubMed]83. Ebbole, D.J. Carbon catabolite repression of gene expression and conidiation in Neurospora crassa .Fungal Genet. Biol. 1998 ,25, 15–21. [CrossRef] [PubMed]84. Tudzynski, B.; Liu, S.; Kelly, J.M. Carbon catabolite repression in plant pathogenic fungi: Isolation andcharacterization of the Gibberella fujikuroi and Botrytis cinerea creA genes. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2000 ,184,9–15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]85. Tonukari, N.J.; Scott-Craig, J.S.; Walton, J.D. Isolation of the carbon catabolite repressor (CREA) gene fromthe plant-pathogenic fungus Cochliobolus carbonum .DNA Seq. 2003 ,14, 103–107. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Benocci, T.; Aguilar-Pontes, M.V .; Zhou, M.; Seiboth, B.; Vries, R.P . Regulators of plant biomass degradationin ascomycetous fungi. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2017 ,10, 152. [CrossRef] [PubMed]87. Suzuki, M.; Hikita, M. Anomalous Field-Induced Resistive Transition in La2-xSrxCuO4. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys.1989 ,28, L1368. [CrossRef]88. David, H.; Krogh, A.M.; Roca, C.; Åkesson, M.; Nielsen, J. CreA inﬂuences the metabolic ﬂuxes of Aspergillusnidulans during growth on glucose and xylose. Microbiology 2005 ,151, 2209–2221. [CrossRef] [PubMed]89. Klaubauf, S.; Narang, H.M.; Post, H.; Zhou, M.; Brunner, K.; Mach-Aigner, A.R.; Mach, R.L.; Heck, A.J.;Altelaar, A.M.; de Vries, R.P . Similar is not the same: Differences in the function of the (hemi-) cellulolyticregulator XlnR (Xlr1/Xyr1) in ﬁlamentous fungi. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2014 ,72, 73–81. [CrossRef] [PubMed]90. Ruijter, G.J.; Visser, J. Carbon repression in Aspergilli. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 1997 ,151, 103–114. [CrossRef][PubMed]91. Macios, M.; Caddick, M.X.; Weglenski, P .; Scazzocchio, C.; Dzikowska, A. The GATA factors AREA andAREB together with the co-repressor NMRA, negatively regulate arginine catabolism in Aspergillus nidulansin response to nitrogen and carbon source. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2012 ,49, 189–198. [CrossRef] [PubMed]92. Wong, K.H.; Hynes, M.J.; Todd, R.B.; Davis, M.A. Deletion and overexpression of the Aspergillus nidulansGATA factor AreB reveals unexpected pleiotropy. Microbiology 2009 ,155, 3868–3880. [CrossRef] [PubMed]93. Delmas, S.; Pullan, S.T.; Gaddipati, S.; Kokolski, M.; Malla, S.; Blythe, M.J.; Ibbett, R.; Campbell, M.;Liddell, S. Uncovering the genome-wide transcriptional responses of the ﬁlamentous fungus Aspergillus nigerto lignocellulose using RNA sequencing. PLoS Genet. 2012 ,8, e1002875. [CrossRef] [PubMed]94. Znameroski, E.A.; Coradetti, S.T.; Roche, C.M.; Tsai, J.C.; Iavarone, A.T.; Cate, J.H.; Cate, J.H.; Glass, N.L.Induction of lignocellulose-degrading enzymes in Neurospora crassa by cellodextrins. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2012 ,109, 6012–6017. [CrossRef] [PubMed]95. Cziferszky, A.; Mach, R.L.; Kubicek, C.P . Phosphorylation positively regulates DNA binding of the carboncatabolite repressor Cre1 of Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei ).J. Biol. Chem. 2002 ,277, 14688–14694.[CrossRef] [PubMed]96. Cziferszky, A.; Seiboth, B.; Kubicek, C.P . The Snf1 kinase of the ﬁlamentous fungus Hypocrea jecorinaphosphorylates regulation-relevant serine residues in the yeast carbon catabolite repressor Mig1 but not inthe ﬁlamentous fungal counterpart Cre1. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2003 ,40, 166–175. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 18 of 2397. Mathieu, M.; Fillinger, S.; Felenbok, B. In Vivo studies of upstream regulatory cis-acting elements of thealcR gene encoding the transactivator of the ethanol regulon in Aspergillus nidulans .Mol. Microbiol. 2000 ,36,123–131. [CrossRef] [PubMed]98. Mathieu, M.; Nikolaev, I.; Scazzocchio, C.; Felenbok, B. Patterns of nucleosomal organization in the alcregulon of Aspergillus nidulans : Roles of the AlcR transcriptional activator and the CreA global repressor.Mol. Microbiol. 2005 ,56, 535–548. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Mach-Aigner, A.R.; Pucher, M.E.; Steiger, M.G.; Bauer, G.E.; Preis, S.J.; Mach, R.L. Transcriptional regulationof xyr1, encoding the main regulator of the xylanolytic and cellulolytic enzyme system in Hypocrea jecorina .Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2008 ,74, 6554–6562. [CrossRef] [PubMed]100. De Vries, R.; van de Vondervoort, P .; Hendriks, L.; Van de Belt, M.; Visser, J. Regulation of thea-glucuronidase-encoding gene (aguA) from Aspergillus niger .Mol. Genet. Genom. 2002 ,268, 96–102.[CrossRef] [PubMed]101. Sun, J.; Tian, C.; Diamond, S.; Glass, N.L. Deciphering transcriptional regulatory mechanisms associatedwith hemicellulose degradation in Neurospora crassa .Eukaryot. Cell 2012 ,11, 482–493. [CrossRef] [PubMed]102. Sun, J.; Glass, N.L. Identiﬁcation of the CRE-1 cellulolytic regulon in Neurospora crassa .PLoS ONE 2011 ,6,e25654. [CrossRef] [PubMed]103. Nitta, M.; Furukawa, T.; Shida, Y.; Mori, K.; Kuhara, S.; Morikawa, Y.; Ogasawara, W. A new Zn (II) 2 Cys6-type transcription factor BglR regulates -glucosidase expression in Trichoderma reesei .Fungal Genet. Biol.2012 ,49, 388–397. [CrossRef] [PubMed]104. Xiong, Y.; Sun, J.; Glass, N.L. VIB1, a link between glucose signaling and carbon catabolite repression, isessential for plant cell wall degradation by Neurospora crassa .PLoS Genet. 2014 ,10, e1004500. [CrossRef][PubMed]105. Fujii, T.; Inoue, H.; Ishikawa, K. Decreased cellulase and xylanase production in the fungusTalaromyces cellulolyticus by disruption of tacA and tctA genes, encoding putative zinc ﬁnger transcriptionalfactors. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2015 ,175, 3218–3229. [CrossRef] [PubMed]106. Coradetti, S.T.; Craig, J.P .; Xiong, Y.; Shock, T.; Tian, C.; Glass, N.L. Conserved and essential transcriptionfactors for cellulase gene expression in ascomycete fungi. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2012 ,109, 7397–7402.[CrossRef] [PubMed]107. Craig, J.P .; Coradetti, S.T.; Starr, T.L.; Glass, N.L. Direct target network of the Neurospora crassa plant cell walldeconstruction regulators CLR-1, CLR-2, and XLR-1. MBio 2015 ,6, e01452-15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]108. Raulo, R.; Kokolski, M.; Archer, D.B. The roles of the zinc ﬁnger transcription factors XlnR, ClrA and ClrB inthe breakdown of lignocellulose by Aspergillus niger .AMB Exp. 2016 ,6, 5. [CrossRef] [PubMed]109. Aro, N.; Saloheimo, A.; Ilm én, M.; Penttilä, M. ACEII, a novel transcriptional activator involved in regulationof cellulase and xylanase genes of Trichoderma reesei .J. Biol. Chem. 2001 ,276, 24309–24314. [CrossRef][PubMed]110. Häkkinen, M.; Valkonen, M.J.; Westerholm-Parvinen, A.; Aro, N.; Arvas, M.; Vitikainen, M.; Penttilä, M.;Saloheimo, M.; Pakula, T.M. Screening of candidate regulators for cellulase and hemicellulase production inTrichoderma reesei and identiﬁcation of a factor essential for cellulase production. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2014 ,7,14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]111. Yamakawa, Y.; Endo, Y.; Li, N.; Yoshizawa, M.; Aoyama, M.; Watanabe, A.; Kanamaru, K.; Kato, M.;Kobayashi, T. Regulation of cellulolytic genes by McmA, the SRF-MADS box protein in Aspergillus nidulans .Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 2013 ,431, 777–782. [CrossRef] [PubMed]112. Saloheimo, A.; Aro, N.; Ilm én, M.; Penttilä, M. Isolation of the ace1 gene encoding a Cys2-His2 transcriptionfactor involved in regulation of activity of the cellulase promoter cbh1of Trichoderma reesei .J. Biol. Chem.2000 ,275, 5817–5825. [CrossRef] [PubMed]113. Chilton, I.J.; Delaney, C.; Barham-Morris, J.; Fincham, D.A.; Hooley, P .; Whitehead, M.P . The Aspergillusnidulans stress response transcription factor StzA is ascomycete-speciﬁc and shows species-speciﬁcpolymorphisms in the C-terminal region. Mycol. Res. 2008 ,112, 1435–1446. [CrossRef] [PubMed]114. Schmoll, M.; Tian, C.; Sun, J.; Tisch, D.; Glass, N.L. Unravelling the molecular basis for light modulatedcellulase gene expression-the role of photoreceptors in Neurospora crassa .BMC Genom. 2012 ,13, 127.[CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Hurley, J.; Loros, J.J.; Dunlap, J.C. Chapter two-dissecting the mechanisms of the clock in Neurospora.Methods Enzymol. 2015 ,551, 29–52. [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 19 of 23116. Dasgupta, A.; Fuller, K.K.; Dunlap, J.C.; Loros, J.J. Seeing the world differently: Variability in thephotosensory mechanisms of two model fungi. Environ. Microbiol. 2016 ,18, 5–20. [CrossRef] [PubMed]117. Li, J.; Lin, L.; Li, H.; Tian, C.; Ma, Y. Transcriptional comparison of the ﬁlamentous fungus Neurospora crassagrowing on three major monosaccharides D-glucose, D-xylose and L-arabinose. Biotechnol. Biofuels 2014 ,7,31. [CrossRef] [PubMed]118. Battaglia, E.; Visser, L.; Nijssen, A.; van Veluw, G.; Wösten, H.; de Vries, R. Analysis of regulation of pentoseutilisation in Aspergillus niger reveals evolutionary adaptations in Eurotiales. Stud. Mycol. 2011 ,69, 31–38.[CrossRef] [PubMed]119. Battaglia, E.; Zhou, M.; de Vries, R.P . The transcriptional activators AraR and XlnR from Aspergillus nigerregulate expression of pentose catabolic and pentose phosphate pathway genes. Res. Microbiol. 2014 ,165,531–540. [CrossRef] [PubMed]120. Klaubauf, S.; Zhou, M.; Lebrun, M.H.; Vries, R.P .; Battaglia, E. A novel l-arabinose-responsive regulatordiscovered in the rice-blast fungus Pyricularia oryzae (Magnaporthe oryzae ).FEBS Lett. 2016 ,590, 550–558.[CrossRef] [PubMed]121. Gomi, K.; Akeno, T.; Minetoki, T.; Ozeki, K.; Kumagai, C.; Okazaki, N.; Iimura, Y. Molecular cloning andcharacterization of a transcriptional activator gene, amyR, involved in the amylolytic gene expression inAspergillus oryzae .Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 2000 ,64, 816–827. [CrossRef] [PubMed]122. Benen, J.A.; Wösten, H.A.; Visser, J.; de Vries, R.P . A broader role for AmyR in Aspergillus niger : Regulation ofthe utilisation of D-glucose or D-galactose containing oligo-and polysaccharides. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.2012 ,93, 285–293.123. Hasegawa, S.; Takizawa, M.; Suyama, H.; Shintani, T.; Gomi, K. Characterization and expression analysis ofa maltose-utilizing (MAL) cluster in Aspergillus oryzae .Fungal Genet. Biol. 2010 ,47, 1–9. [CrossRef] [PubMed]124. Suzuki, K.; Tanaka, M.; Konno, Y.; Ichikawa, T.; Ichinose, S.; Hasegawa-Shiro, S.; Shintani, T.; Gomi, K.Distinct mechanism of activation of two transcription factors, AmyR and MalR, involved in amylolyticenzyme production in Aspergillus oryzae .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2015 ,99, 1805–1815. [CrossRef][PubMed]125. Kunitake, E.; Tani, S.; Sumitani, J.-I.; Kawaguchi, T. A novel transcriptional regulator, ClbR, controls thecellobiose-and cellulose-responsive induction of cellulase and xylanase genes regulated by two distinctsignaling pathways in Aspergillus aculeatus .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2013 ,97, 2017–2028. [CrossRef][PubMed]126. Kunitake, E.; Kawamura, A.; Tani, S.; Takenaka, S.; Ogasawara, W.; Sumitani, J.-I.; Kawaguchi, T. Effectsof clbR overexpression on enzyme production in Aspergillus aculeatus vary depending on the cellulosicbiomass-degrading enzyme species. Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 2015 ,79, 488–495. [CrossRef] [PubMed]127. Li, Y.; Chen, G.; Liu, W. Multiple metabolic signals inﬂuence GAL gene activation by modulating theinteraction of Gal80p with the transcriptional activator Gal4p. Mol. Microbiol. 2010 ,78, 414–428. [CrossRef][PubMed]128. Kowalczyk, J.E.; Gruben, B.S.; Battaglia, E.; Wiebenga, A.; Majoor, E.; de Vries, R.P . Genetic Interaction ofAspergillus nidulans galR, xlnR and araR in regulating D-Galactose and L-Arabinose release and catabolismgene expression. PLoS ONE 2015 ,10, e0143200. [CrossRef] [PubMed]129. Stricker, A.R.; Steiger, M.G.; Mach, R.L. Xyr1 receives the lactose induction signal and regulates lactosemetabolism in Hypocrea jecorina .FEBS Lett. 2007 ,581, 3915–3920. [CrossRef] [PubMed]130. Yuan, X.-L.; Roubos, J.A.; van den Hondel, C.A.; Ram, A.F. Identiﬁcation of InuR, a new Zn (II)2Cys6 transcriptional activator involved in the regulation of inulinolytic genes in Aspergillus niger .Mol. Genet. Genom. 2008 ,279, 11–26. [CrossRef] [PubMed]131. Zhang, L.; Lubbers, R.J.; Simon, A.; Stassen, J.H.; Vargas Ribera, P .R.; Viaud, M.; van Kan, J.A. Anovel Zn2Cys6 transcription factor BcGaaR regulates D-galacturonic acid utilization in Botrytis cinerea .Mol. Microbiol. 2016 ,100, 247–262. [CrossRef] [PubMed]132. Derntl, C.; Rassinger, A.; Srebotnik, E.; Mach, R.L.; Mach-Aigner, A.R. Xpp1 regulates the expression ofxylanases, but not of cellulases in Trichoderma reesei .Biotechnol. Biofuels 2015 ,8, 112. [CrossRef] [PubMed]133. Derntl, C.; Kluger, B.; Bueschl, C.; Schuhmacher, R.; Mach, R.L.; Mach-Aigner, A.R. Transcription factorXpp1 is a switch between primary and secondary fungal metabolism. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2017 ,114,E560–E569. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 20 of 23134. Mantovani, R. A survey of 178 NF-Y binding CCAAT boxes. Nucleic Acids Res. 1998 ,26, 1135–1143. [CrossRef][PubMed]135. Zeilinger, S.; Mach, R.L.; Kubicek, C.P . Two adjacent protein binding motifs in the cbh2 (cellobiohydrolaseII-encoding) promoter of the fungus Hypocrea jecorina (Trichoderma reesei ) cooperate in the induction bycellulose. J. Biol. Chem. 1998 ,273, 34463–34471. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Narendja, F.M.; Davis, M.A.; Hynes, M.J. AnCF, the CCAAT Binding Complex of Aspergillus nidulans ,Is Essential for the Formation of a DNase I-Hypersensitive Site in the 50Region of theamdS Gene.Mol. Cell. Biol. 1999 ,19, 6523–6531. [CrossRef] [PubMed]137. Steidl, S.; Papagiannopoulos, P .; Litzka, O.; Andrianopoulos, A.; Davis, M.A.; Brakhage, A.A.; Hynes, M.J.AnCF, the CCAAT Binding Complex of Aspergillus nidulans , Contains Products of the hapB, hapC, and hapEGenes and Is Required for Activation by the Pathway-Speciﬁc Regulatory GeneamdR. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1999 ,19, 99–106. [CrossRef] [PubMed]138. De Vries, R.P .; Jansen, J.; Aguilar, G.; Paˇ renicov á, L.; Joosten, V .; Wülfert, F.; Benen, J.A.; Visser, J. Expressionproﬁling of pectinolytic genes from Aspergillus niger .FEBS Lett. 2002 ,530, 41–47. [CrossRef]139. Gruben, B.S.; Zhou, M.; Wiebenga, A.; Ballering, J.; Overkamp, K.M.; Punt, P .J.; de Vries, R.P . Aspergillus nigerRhaR, a regulator involved in L-rhamnose release and catabolism. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2014 ,98,5531–5540. [CrossRef] [PubMed]140. Christensen, U.; Gruben, B.S.; Madrid, S.; Mulder, H.; Nikolaev, I.; de Vries, R.P . Unique regulatorymechanism for D-galactose utilization in Aspergillus nidulans .Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2011 ,77, 7084–7087.[CrossRef] [PubMed]141. Culleton, H.; McKie, V .; de Vries, R.P . Physiological and molecular aspects of degradation of plantpolysaccharides by fungi: What have we learned from Aspergillus? Biotechnol. J. 2013 ,8, 884–894. [CrossRef][PubMed]142. Todd, R.; Lockington, R.; Kelly, J. The Aspergillus nidulans creC gene involved in carbon catabolite repressionencodes a WD40 repeat protein. Mol. Gen. Genet. 2000 ,263, 561–570. [CrossRef] [PubMed]143. Neer, E.J.; Schmidt, C.J.; Nambudripad, R.; Smith, T.F. The ancient regulatory-protein family of WD-repeatproteins. Nature 1994 ,371, 297–300. [CrossRef] [PubMed]144. Denton, J.A.; Kelly, J.M. Disruption of Trichoderma reesei cre2, encoding an ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase,results in increased cellulase activity. BMC Biotechnol. 2011 ,11, 103. [CrossRef] [PubMed]145. Hynes, M.; Kelly , J.M. Pleiotropic mutants of Aspergillus nidulans altered in carbon metabolism. Mol. Gen. Genet.1977 ,150, 193–204. [CrossRef] [PubMed]146. Chen, H.I.; Einbond, A.; Kwak, S.-J.; Linn, H.; Koepf, E.; Peterson, S.; Kelly, J.W.; Sudol, M. Characterizationof the WW domain of human yes-associated protein and its polyproline-containing ligands. J. Biol. Chem.1997 ,272, 17070–17077. [CrossRef] [PubMed]147. Kiekhaefer, C.M.; Boyer, M.E.; Johnson, K.D.; Bresnick, E.H. A WW domain-binding motif within theactivation domain of the hematopoietic transcription factor NF-E2 is essential for establishment of atissue-speciﬁc histone modiﬁcation pattern. J. Biol. Chem. 2004 ,279, 7456–7461. [CrossRef] [PubMed]148. Gupta, R.; Kus, B.; Fladd, C.; Wasmuth, J.; Tonikian, R.; Sidhu, S.; Krogan, N.J.; Parkinson, J.; Rotin, D.Ubiquitination screen using protein microarrays for comprehensive identiﬁcation of Rsp5 substrates in yeast.Mol. Syst. Biol. 2007 ,3, 116. [CrossRef] [PubMed]149. Carlson, M.; Osmond, B.C.; Botstein, D. Mutants of yeast defective in sucrose utilization. Genetics 1981 ,98,25–40. [PubMed]150. Hardie, D.G. AMP-activated/SNF1 protein kinases: Conserved guardians of cellular energy. Nat. Rev. Mol.Cell Biol. 2007 ,8, 774–785. [CrossRef] [PubMed]151. Hardie, D.G.; Carling, D.; Carlson, M. The AMP-activated/SNF1 protein kinase subfamily: Metabolic sensorsof the eukaryotic cell? Annu. Rev. 1998 ,67, 821–855. [CrossRef] [PubMed]152. García-Salcedo, R.; Lubitz, T.; Beltran, G.; Elbing, K.; Tian, Y.; Frey, S.; Wolkenhauer, O.; Krantz, M.; Klipp, E.;Hohmann, S. Glucose de-repression by yeast AMP-activated protein kinase SNF1 is controlled via at leasttwo independent steps. FEBS J. 2014 ,281, 1901–1917. [CrossRef] [PubMed]153. Yi, M.; Park, J.-H.; Ahn, J.-H.; Lee, Y.-H. MoSNF1 regulates sporulation and pathogenicity in the rice blastfungus Magnaporthe oryzae .Fungal Genet. Biol. 2008 ,45, 1172–1181. [CrossRef] [PubMed]154. Brosch, G.; Loidl, P .; Graessle, S. Histone modiﬁcations and chromatin dynamics: A focus on ﬁlamentousfungi. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2008 ,32, 409–439. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 21 of 23155. Soyer, J.L.; El Ghalid, M.; Glaser, N.; Ollivier, B.; Linglin, J.; Grandaubert, J.; Balesdent, M.H.; Connolly, L.R.;Freitag, M.; Rouxel, T. Epigenetic control of effector gene expression in the plant pathogenic fungusLeptosphaeria maculans. PLoS Genet. 2014 ,10, e1004227. [CrossRef] [PubMed]156. Liu, L.; Jin, G.; Zhou, X. Modeling the relationship of epigenetic modiﬁcations to transcription factor binding.Nucleic Acids Res. 2015 ,43, 3873–3885. [CrossRef] [PubMed]157. Bayram, Ö.; Krappmann, S.; Ni, M.; Bok, J.W.; Helmstaedt, K.; Valerius, O.; Braus-Stromeyer, S.; Kwon, N.J.;Keller, N.P .; Yu, J.H. VelB/VeA/LaeA complex coordinates light signal with fungal development andsecondary metabolism. Science 2008 ,320, 1504–1506. [CrossRef] [PubMed]158. Karimi-Aghcheh, R.; Bok, J.W.; Phatale, P .A.; Smith, K.M.; Baker, S.E.; Lichius, A.; Omann, M.; Zeilinger, S.;Seiboth, B.; Rhee, C. Functional analyses of Trichoderma reesei LAE1 reveal conserved and contrasting roles ofthis regulator. G3 Gen. Genomes Genet. 2013 ,3, 369–378. [CrossRef] [PubMed]159. Karimi, A.R.; N émeth, Z.; Atanasova, L.; Fekete, E.; Paholcsek, M. The VELVET A Orthologue VEL1 ofTrichoderma reesei regulates fungal development and is essential for cellulase gene expression. PLoS ONE2014 ,9, e112799.160. Fekete, E.; Karaffa, L.; Aghcheh, R.K.; N émeth, Z.; Fekete, É.; Orosz, A.; Paholcsek, M.; St ágel, A.; Kubicek, C.P .The transcriptome of lae1 mutants of Trichoderma reesei cultivated at constant growth rates reveals newtargets of LAE1 function. BMC Genom. 2014 ,15, 447. [CrossRef] [PubMed]161. Zeilinger, S.; Schmoll, M.; Pail, M.; Mach, R.L.; Kubicek, C.P . Nucleosome transactions on the Hypocreajecorina (Trichoderma reesei ) cellulase promoter cbh2 associated with cellulase induction. Mol. Genet. Genom.2003 ,270, 46–55. [CrossRef] [PubMed]162. Ronne, H. Glucose repression in fungi. Trends Genet. 1995 ,11, 12–17. [CrossRef]163. García, I.; Gonzalez, R.; G ómez, D.; Scazzocchio, C. Chromatin rearrangements in the prnD-prnB bidirectionalpromoter: Dependence on transcription factors. Eukaryot. Cell 2004 ,3, 144–156. [CrossRef] [PubMed]164. Ries, L.; Belshaw, N.; Ilm én, M.; Penttilä, M.; Alapuranen, M.; Archer, D. The role of CRE1 in nucleosomepositioning within the cbh1 promoter and coding regions of Trichoderma reesei .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol.2014 ,98, 749–762. [CrossRef] [PubMed]165. Mello-de-Sousa, T.M.; Rassinger, A.; Pucher, M.E.; dos Santos Castro, L.; Persinoti, G.F.; Silva-Rocha, R.;Poças-Fonseca, M.J.; Mach, R.L.; Silva, R.N.; Mach-Aigner, A.R. The impact of chromatin remodelling oncellulase expression in Trichoderma reesei .BMC Genom. 2015 ,16, 588. [CrossRef] [PubMed]166. Mello-de-Sousa, T.M.; Rassinger, A.; Derntl, C.; Poças-Fonseca, M.J.; Mach, R.L.; R Mach-Aigner, A.The relation between promoter chromatin status, Xyr1 and cellulase expression in Trichoderma reesei .Curr.Genom. 2016 ,17, 145–152. [CrossRef] [PubMed]167. Xin, Q.; Gong, Y.; Lv, X.; Chen, G.; Liu, W. Trichoderma reesei histone acetyltransferase Gcn5 regulates fungalgrowth, conidiation, and cellulase gene expression. Curr. Microbiol. 2013 ,67, 580–589. [CrossRef] [PubMed]168. Aro, N.; Pakula, T.; Penttilä, M. Transcriptional regulation of plant cell wall degradation by ﬁlamentousfungi. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2005 ,29, 719–739. [CrossRef] [PubMed]169. Ilyés, H.; Fekete, E.; Karaffa, L.; Fekete, É.; Sándor, E.; Szentirmai, A.; Kubicek, C.P . CreA-mediated carboncatabolite repression of -galactosidase formation in Aspergillus nidulans is growth rate dependent. FEMSMicrobiol. Lett. 2004 ,235, 147–151. [CrossRef] [PubMed]170. Mc Mahon, H.; Kelly, C.; Fogarty, W. Effect of growth rate on -amylase production by Streptomyces sp. IMD2679. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 1997 ,48, 504–509. [CrossRef] [PubMed]171. Van Hoek, P .; Van Dijken, J.P .; Pronk, J.T. Effect of speciﬁc growth rate on fermentative capacity of baker’syeast. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 1998 ,64, 4226–4233. [PubMed]172. Warner, J.B.; Lolkema, J.S. CcpA-dependent carbon catabolite repression in bacteria. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev.2003 ,67, 475–490. [CrossRef] [PubMed]173. Strauss, J.; Horvath, H.K.; Abdallah, B.M.; Kindermann, J.; Mach, R.L.; Kubicek, C.P . The function of CreA, thecarbon catabolite repressor of Aspergillus nidulans , is regulated at the transcriptional and post-transcriptionallevel. Mol. Microbiol. 1999 ,32, 169–178. [CrossRef] [PubMed]174. Kuchin, S.; Vyas, V .K.; Carlson, M. Snf1 protein kinase and the repressors Nrg1 and Nrg2 regulate FLO11,haploid invasive growth, and diploid pseudohyphal differentiation. Mol. Cell. Biol. 2002 ,22, 3994–4000.[CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 22 of 23175. Somerville, C.; Bauer, S.; Brininstool, G.; Facette, M.; Hamann, T.; Milne, J.; Osborne, E.; Paredez, A.;Persson, S.; Raab, T. Toward a systems approach to understanding plant cell walls. Science 2004 ,306,2206–2211. [CrossRef] [PubMed]176. Carroll, A.; Somerville, C. Cellulosic biofuels. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 2009 ,60, 165–182. [CrossRef] [PubMed]177. Battaglia, E. Regulation and Diversity of Plant Polysaccharide Utilisation in Fungi. Ph.D. Thesis, UniversityUtrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands, 2011.178. Kowalczyk, J.E.; Benoit, I.; de Vries, R.P . Regulation of plant biomass utilization in Aspergillus. Adv. Appl.Microbiol. 2014 ,88, 31–56. [PubMed]179. Mäkelä, M.R.; Donofrio, N.; de Vries, R.P . Plant biomass degradation by fungi. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2014 ,72,2–9. [CrossRef] [PubMed]180. Tonukari, N.J.; Scott-Craig, J.S.; Waltonb, J.D. The Cochliobolus carbonum SNF1 gene is required for cellwall–degrading enzyme expression and virulence on maize. Plant Cell 2000 ,12, 237–247. [CrossRef][PubMed]181. Ospina-Giraldo, M.D.; Mullins, E.; Kang, S. Loss of function of the Fusarium oxysporum SNF1 gene reducesvirulence on cabbage and Arabidopsis. Curr. Genet. 2003 ,44, 49–57. [CrossRef] [PubMed]182. Hedbacker, K.; Carlson, M. SNF1/AMPK pathways in yeast. Front. Biosci. A J. Virtual Libr. 2008 ,13, 2408.[CrossRef]183. Orejas, M.; MacCabe, A.P .; P érez Gonz ález, J.A.; Kumar, S.; Ram ón, D. Carbon catabolite repression of theAspergillus nidulans xlnA gene. Mol. Microbiol. 1999 ,31, 177–184. [CrossRef] [PubMed]184. Jonkers, W.; Rep, M. Mutation of CRE1 in Fusarium oxysporum reverts the pathogenicity defects of the FRP1deletion mutant. Mol. Microbiol. 2009 ,74, 1100–1113. [CrossRef] [PubMed]185. Mach-Aigner, A.R.; Omony, J.; Jovanovic, B.; van Boxtel, A.J.; de Graaff, L.H. D-Xylose concentration-dependent hydrolase expression proﬁles and the function of CreA and XlnR in Aspergillus niger .Appl. Environ.Microbiol. 2012 ,78, 3145–3155. [CrossRef] [PubMed]186. Felenbok, B.; Flipphi, M.; Nikolaev, I. Ethanol catabolism in Aspergillus nidulans : A model system for studyinggene regulation. Prog.Nucleic Acid Res. Mol. Biol. 2001 ,69, 149–204. [PubMed]187. Fillinger, S.; Felenbok, B. A newly identiﬁed gene cluster in Aspergillus nidulans comprises ﬁve novel geneslocalized in the alc region that are controlled both by the speciﬁc transactivator AlcR and the generalcarbon-catabolite repressor CreA. Mol. Microbiol. 1996 ,20, 475–488. [CrossRef] [PubMed]188. Flipphi, M.; Mathieu, M.; Cirpus, I.; Panozzo, C.; Felenbok, B. Regulation of the aldehyde dehydrogenasegene (aldA) and its role in the control of the coinducer level necessary for induction of the ethanol utilizationpathway in Aspergillus nidulans .J. Biol. Chem. 2001 ,276, 6950–6958. [CrossRef] [PubMed]189. Flipphi, M.; Kocialkowska, J.; Felenbok, B. Characteristics of physiological inducers of the ethanol utilization(alc) pathway in Aspergillus nidulans .Biochem. J. 2002 ,364, 25–31. [CrossRef] [PubMed]190. Mathieu, M.; Felenbok, B. The Aspergillus nidulans CREA protein mediates glucose repression of the ethanolregulon at various levels through competition with the ALCR-speciﬁc transactivator. EMBO J. 1994 ,13, 4022.[PubMed]191. Panozzo, C.; Cornillot, E.; Felenbok, B. The CreA Repressor Is the Sole DNA-binding Protein Responsible forCarbon Catabolite Repression of the alcA Gene in Aspergillus nidulans via Its Binding to a Couple of SpeciﬁcSites. J. Biol. Chem. 1998 ,273, 6367–6372. [CrossRef] [PubMed]192. Takashima, S.; Iikura, H.; Nakamura, A.; Masaki, H.; Uozumi, T. Analysis of Cre1 binding sites in theTrichoderma reesei cbh1 upstream region. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 1996 ,145, 361–366. [CrossRef] [PubMed]193. Portnoy, T.; Margeot, A.; Seidl-Seiboth, V .; Le Crom, S.; Chaabane, F.B.; Linke, R.; Seiboth, B.; Kubicek, C.P .Differential regulation of the cellulase transcription factors XYR1, ACE2, and ACE1 in Trichoderma reeseistrains producing high and low levels of cellulase. Eukaryot. Cell 2011 ,10, 262–271. [CrossRef] [PubMed]194. Antoni êto, A.C.C.; dos Santos Castro, L.; Silva-Rocha, R.; Persinoti, G.F.; Silva, R.N. Deﬁning thegenome-wide role of CRE1 during carbon catabolite repression in Trichoderma reesei using RNA-Seq analysis.Fungal Genet. Biol. 2014 ,73, 93–103. [CrossRef] [PubMed]195. Lorito, M.; Mach, R.L.; Sposato, P .; Strauss, J.; Peterbauer, C.K.; Kubicek, C.P . Mycoparasitic interactionrelieves binding of the Cre1 carbon catabolite repressor protein to promoter sequences of the ech42(endochitinase-encoding) gene in Trichoderma harzianum. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1996 ,93, 14868–14872.[CrossRef] [PubMed]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 48 23 of 23196. Fang, W.; Pava-Ripoll, M.; Wang, S.; Leger, R.S. Protein kinase A regulates production of virulencedeterminants by the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae .Fungal Genet. Biol. 2009 ,46, 277–285.[CrossRef] [PubMed]197. Fang, W.; Leng, B.; Xiao, Y.; Jin, K.; Ma, J.; Fan, Y.; Feng, J.; Yang, X.; Zhang, Y.; Pei, Y. Cloning of Beauveriabassiana chitinase gene Bbchit1 and its application to improve fungal strain virulence. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.2005 ,71, 363–370. [CrossRef] [PubMed]198. Screen, S.; Bailey, A.; Charnley, K.; Cooper, R.; Clarkson, J. Carbon regulation of the cuticle-degradingenzyme PR1 from Metarhizium anisopliae may involve a trans-acting DNA-binding protein CRR1, a functionalequivalent of the Aspergillus nidulans CREA protein. Curr. Genet. 1997 ,31, 511–518. [CrossRef] [PubMed]199. Mondal, S.; Baksi, S.; Koris, A.; Vatai, G. Journey of enzymes in entomopathogenic fungi. Pac. Sci. Rev. ANat. Sci. Eng. 2016 ,18, 85–99. [CrossRef]200. Jin, K.; Luo, Z.; Jiang, X.; Zhang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Pei, Y. Carbon catabolite repressor gene BbCre1 inﬂuencescarbon source uptake but does not have a big impact on virulence in Beauveria bassiana .J. Invertebr. Pathol.2011 ,106, 400–406. [CrossRef] [PubMed]201. Wilson, R.A.; Gibson, R.P .; Quispe, C.F.; Littlechild, J.A.; Talbot, N.J. An NADPH-dependent genetic switchregulates plant infection by the rice blast fungus. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2010 ,107, 21902–21907.[CrossRef] [PubMed]202. Fernandez, J.; Wright, J.D.; Hartline, D.; Quispe, C.F.; Madayiputhiya, N.; Wilson, R.A. Principles of carboncatabolite repression in the rice blast fungus: Tps1, Nmr1-3, and a MATE–Family Pump regulate glucosemetabolism during Infection. PLoS Genet. 2012 ,8, e1002673. [CrossRef] [PubMed]203. Cho, Y.; Kim, K.H.; La Rota, M.; Scott, D.; Santopietro, G.; Callihan, M.; Mitchell, T.K.; Lawrence, C.B.Identiﬁcation of novel virulence factors associated with signal transduction pathways in Alternaria brassicicola .Mol. Microbiol. 2009 ,72, 1316–1333. [CrossRef] [PubMed]204. Tzima, A.K.; Paplomatas, E.J.; Rauyaree, P .; Ospina-Giraldo, M.D.; Kang, S. VdSNF1, the sucrosenonfermenting protein kinase gene of Verticillium dahliae , is required for virulence and expression of genesinvolved in cell-wall degradation. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2011 ,24, 129–142. [CrossRef] [PubMed]205. Nakari-Setälä, T.; Paloheimo, M.; Kallio, J.; Vehmaanperä, J.; Penttilä, M.; Saloheimo, M. Genetic modiﬁcationof carbon catabolite repression in Trichoderma reesei for improved protein production. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.2009 ,75, 4853–4860. [CrossRef] [PubMed]206. Fujii, T.; Inoue, H.; Ishikawa, K. Enhancing cellulase and hemicellulase production by genetic modiﬁcationof the carbon catabolite repressor gene, creA, in Acremonium cellulolyticus .AMB Exp. 2013 ,3, 73. [CrossRef][PubMed]207. Bi, F.; Barad, S.; Ment, D.; Luria, N.; Dubey, A.; Casado, V .; Glam, N.; M ínguez, J.D.; Espeso, E.A.; Fluhr, R.Carbon regulation of environmental pH by secreted small molecules that modulate pathogenicity inphytopathogenic fungi. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2016 ,17, 1178–1195. [CrossRef] [PubMed]208. Beattie, S.R.; Mark, K.M.; Thammahong, A.; Ries, L.N.A.; Dhingra, S.; Caffrey-Carr, A.K.; Cheng, C.;Black, C.C.; Bowyer, P .; Bromley, M.J. Filamentous fungal carbon catabolite repression supports metabolicplasticity and stress responses essential for disease progression. PLoS Pathog. 2017 ,13, e1006340. [CrossRef][PubMed]209. Vinuselvi, P .; Kim, M.-K.; Lee, S.-K.; Ghim, C.-M. Rewiring carbon catabolite repression for microbial cellfactory. BMB Rep. 2012 ,45, 59–70. [CrossRef] [PubMed]©2017 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open accessarticle distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution(CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).