Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found athttps://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=uawm20Journal of the Air & Waste Management AssociationISSN: 1096-2247 (Print) 2162-2906 (Online) Journal homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/uawm20Carbon monoxide emission rates from roastedwhole bean and ground coffeeRyan F. LeBouf & Michael AldridgeTo cite this article:  Ryan F. LeBouf & Michael Aldridge (2019) Carbon monoxide emissionrates from roasted whole bean and ground coffee, Journal of the Air & Waste ManagementAssociation, 69:1, 89-96, DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2018.1515125To link to this article:  https://doi.org/10.1080/10962247.2018.1515125Published online: 19 Oct 2018.Submit your article to this journal Article views: 1148View related articles View Crossmark dataCiting articles: 6 View citing articles TECHNICAL PAPERCarbon monoxide emission rates from roasted whole bean and ground coffeeRyan F. LeBouf and Michael AldridgeField Studies Branch, Respiratory Health Division, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Morgantown, WV, USAABSTRACTCarbon monoxide (CO) emitted from roasted coffee i s a potential occupational respiratory exposurehazard to workers within the coffee industry. The current study objective was to estimate CO emissionfactors from commercially available roasted whole b e a na n dg r o u n dc o f f e em e a s u r e di nl o o s ef o r m ,n o tpackaged, and to assess the utility of CO monitoring in nonventilated storage spaces such as withincoffee roasting and packaging facilities, transport vessels, and cafés. Determinants affecting CO emis-sions from coffee were investigated, including form (whole bean vs. ground), roast level (light, medium,medium-dark, dark), and age (time since the package was opened). CO emission factors were estimatedfor roasted coffee samples from a variety of manufacturers purchased from local grocery stores andonline. Emission tests were performed on 36 brands of coffee, some with more than one sample perbrand and with various roast levels. Decaying source e quations or smoothing fun ctions were fitted to theCO concentration measurements. Maximum observed emission factors at the peak of the predictedconcentration curve were adjusted by the time required to reach the maximum CO concentration andreported as emission factors (EF buildup ). Ground coffee had a signi ficantly increased EF buildup (P< 0.0001)compared with whole bean. Roast level did not significantly affect emissions for whole bean ( P=0 . 7 2 )but did for ground ( P< 0.001) coffee. For ground coffee, medium-dark and dark roasts had significantlyhigher emissions than medium and light roasts. Worst -case emission factors from commercially availablewhole bean and ground coffee measured in loose for m, not packaged, showed that roasted coffee canrapidly emit CO. CO concentrations should be monitored in storage spaces in service and manufacturingfacilities as well as transport vessels to ensure expo sures do not exceed occupational exposure limits.Storage spaces may need to be ventilated to control CO concentrations to safe levels.Implications : Emission rates of carbon monoxide (CO) from roasted coffee showed that unven-tilated or underventilated storage spaces should be monitored and ventilated, if necessary, tocontrol CO concentrations to safe levels.PAPER HISTORYReceived June 28, 2018Revised August 7, 2018Accepted August 20, 2018IntroductionCarbon monoxide (CO) is produced as a result of thecoffee roasting process, and exposures have been asso-ciated with fatalities and near-fatalities in the coffeeindustry (Newton 2002 ; Nishimura, Abe, andFukunaga 2003 ). Given the prolific consumption ofcoffee in the United States, it is expected that unventi-lated or underventilated storage of roasted coffee innonindustrial sectors, such as service (e.g., coffeeshops, conference centers, restaurants) and transport(e.g., cruise lines) could be of concern.CO is a simple asphyxiant that is colorless andodorless. Health symptoms associated with CO expo-sures such as headache, nausea, weakness, dizziness,and confusion are nonspecific, making it difficult tocreate causal links without exposure measurements,carboxyhemoglobin levels, or known sources.Standard test methods use electrochemical sensors toassess the exposure hazard (National Institute forOccupational Safety and Health [NIOSH] 1996 ).CO is produced during incomplete combustion.Common sources include welding, cooking, vehicleexhaust, cigarettes, and improperly functioning heatingsystems. CO is also produced during the coffee roastingprocess when oxygen combines with methane fromnatural gas –fired roasting. Gases are trapped in thepore structure of roasted coffee, which is influencedby roasting temperature and time (Schenker et al.2000 ). CO and carbon dioxide are emitted from theroasted coffee beans over time. Degas (i.e., off-gas) ratesof carbon dioxide are faster with higher temperaturesand faster roasting times, and the emission rate oftrapped gases is influenced by the degree of grinding(Wang and Lim 2014 ). Emissions of CO and carbondioxide evolve more quickly when the beans are groundCONTACT Ryan F. LeBouf rlebouf@cdc.gov Field Studies Branch, Respiratory Health Division, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,1095 Willowdale Road, Morgantown 26505, WV, USAColor versions of one or more of the figures in the paper can be found online at www.tandfonline.com/uawm .JOURNAL OF THE AIR & WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION2019, VOL. 69, NO. 1, 89 –96https://doi.org/10.1080/10962247.2018.1515125© This work was authored as part of the Contributor's official duties as an Employee of the United States Government and is therefore a work of the United States Government. Inaccordance with 17 USC. 105, no copyright protection is available for such works under US Law.due to the release of trapped gases and the increasedsurface area of ground coffee compared with wholebeans (Newton 2002 ). CO exposures in the workplaceabove the Occupational Safety and HealthAdministration (OSHA) ceiling limit of 200 parts permillion (ppm) may occur when entering unventilated,roasted coffee storage spaces and when working withroasted coffee in storage containers in coffee roastingand packaging facilities (Hawley, Cox-Ganser, andCummings 2017 ). CO air concentration in the work-place will depend on factors such as the amount ofcoffee stored, how it is stored (sealed vs. unsealed),room volume, air exchange rate, and generation rate.Diffusion of gases out of roasted whole bean orground coffee decreases as the mass trapped in thecoffee decreases and the concentration gradientbetween the material and its surroundings decreases.The effect of packaging or containment on the emissionof CO from coffee was not investigated here, but itshould be considered when coffee is stored as a finalpackaged product or in temporary storage or transportcontainers in service or manufacturing facilities. Whencoffee is stored in a sealed or partially sealed container(e.g., bag with or without one-way valve, bins with orwithout lids, etc.), gases accumulate in the containervoid volume until a concentration equilibrium is estab-lished between the material and the void volume.Pressure inside a storage container with a tight-sealinglid may increase over time due to the release of carbondioxide (mainly) and other gases and gaseous chemicals(e.g., CO and aroma compounds), which will create adriving force for gas emissions through leakage. Whenthe container is opened, the concentration gradientincreases by dilution of the void volume with freshair, which reinvigorates diffusion until most of thetrapped gas has escaped. Gases may also be forced outof containers because of volume displacement whenroasted coffee is added to a container.The current study objective was to estimate emissionfactors from commercially available whole bean andground coffee measured in unpackaged, loose form.This study was conducted to assess CO emissionsfrom roasted coffee as an occupational exposure agentand to highlight the need for CO monitoring in storagespaces and the coffee industry. The emission estimatesproduced here are worst-case estimates, as the sampleswere tested in loose form and at high air exchangerates, which allowed for rapid screening of samples.Determinants affecting CO emissions from coffeewere investigated, including form (whole bean vs.ground), roast level (light, medium, dark), and age(time since the package was opened).MethodsExperimental methodsRoasted coffee samples from a variety of manufacturerspurchased from local grocery stores and online fromAmazon.com were tested. CO emission data from thesesamples were acquired by placing ground, freshlyground (within 10 min of grinding), or whole beancoffee into a microchamber (M-CTE 250; MarkesInternational, Sacramento, CA). CO concentrationmeasurements were recorded every 10 sec for approxi-mately 1.5 hr using a CO monitor (982 IAQ probe/Velocicalc 9555X; TSI, Shoreview, MN). The CO moni-tor uses an electrochemical sensor housed in a probethat was attached to the chamber exhaust using theprobe calibration sleeve and a 1-inch piece of Teflontubing. The sensor had a measurement range from 0.1to 500 ppm and was calibrated daily using zero-gradeair (NorLab, Boise, ID) and a 35-ppm CO calibrationstandard (NorLab) to adjust the span. Prior to com-mencing the emission tests, the microchamber back-ground CO was measured and was generally below 0.1ppm. Measurements began immediately upon placingthe sample in the chamber contrary to available stan-dard practices (American Society for Testing andMaterials [ASTM] 2017 ). ASTM D7706 recommendsa 30-min equilibration time prior to sampling volatileorganic compound (VOC) emissions from products,but in this study the collection of the buildup portionof the decay curve was desired. The emission studieswere performed using humidified air at 36.9 ± 5.6%relative humidity (RH; mean± standard deviation) and24.3 ± 0.8 °C, measured with a Control Company 4085hygrometer/thermometer monitor (Webster, TX).Control of flow rate was achieved using pressurealong with an in-line rotameter containing manualflow rate adjustment. Flow rates were calibrated priorto testing using a digital flowmeter (Bios DryCalDefender 530; Mesa Laboratories, Butler, NJ). Themicrochamber system used laboratory compressed airat 19 pounds per square inch gauge, which was humi-dified with a glass bottle containing 500 mL water (18.2MOhm-cm). The test chamber had a volume of114 mL, translating to approximately 52.6 air changesper hour (hr−1) at 100 mL/min. To achieve the desiredflow rate and temperature, the Markes M-CTE 250microchamber was operated in high-flow mode withthe cooling fans on and chamber heaters set to 25 °C.Preliminary emission testing at 40 mL/min with2.5 and 7.5 g coffee demonstrated that results weremore reliable with increased mass due to increasedCO concentration achieved in the emission chamber.90 R.F. LEBOUF AND M. ALDRIDGEPreliminary emission testing was performed at severalflow rates (40, 60, and 100 mL/min, using 7.5 g coffee)to determine the flow rate that provided the highest orworst-case estimate of emissions. For emissions, higherair exchange rates produce higher emissions, since theconcentration gradient between the material and thechamber is maintained. Subsequent tests were per-formed using 7.5 ± 0.01 g coffee and 100.4 ± 1.9 mL/min air on 36 brands of coffee, some with more thanone sample per brand and with various roast levels; 33samples were originally packaged as whole bean and 31samples were originally packaged as ground coffee(Table 1 ). Grind level for the “packaged as groundcoffee ”was assumed to be a medium grind becausethese coffees were intended for drip coffee makers.One coffee sample was packaged in a tin with valveon the top with the rest packaged in bags with valves.None of the whole bean samples were flavored, and sixof the ground samples were flavored. The roast levelrecorded was based on manufacturer ’s descriptions onthe product packaging. Whole bean coffees were testedboth as whole beans and as freshly ground beans(Cuisinart DBM-8AMZ Supreme Grind AutomaticBurr Mill, Stainless Steel; Stamford, CT) using a med-ium grind setting. Coffees were subjected to testingimmediately after opening the manufacturer ’s packageand resealed; sell by/best by date, serial number, andpackage open date were recorded. The median numberof days to sell by/best by date was 196 days with a rangeof 4 –667 days. It appeared that most coffees had sell by/best by dates of 1 yr from packaging.Data analysisCO concentration emission data were processed in SAS9.4and JMP 12.1 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). Statisticalsignificance was defined as P< 0.05. CO concentrationin ppm was converted to mg/m3using a molecularweight of 28.01 g/mol and a molar volume adjustedbased on the average temperature of the trial. CO massconcentration was plotted against elapsed time to inves-tigate the emission curve.Emission factors were estimated based on concentra-tion curves using ASTM D5116: Standard Guide forSmall-Scale Environmental Chamber Determinations ofOrganic Emissions from Indoor Materials/Products(ASTM 2010 ). A nonlinear regression technique,PROC NLIN, in SAS was used to fit the CO data tothe following first-order decaying source equation:CtðÞ¼LEF0ðÞ e/C0kt/C0e/C0Nt/C0/C1N/C0k/C20/C21þEFss (1)where C(t) is the CO mass concentration, mg m−3,a ttime t; L is the loading factor, which is the mass ofmaterial divided by the chamber volume, kg m−3;E F 0isthe initial emission factor, mg kg−1hr−1;E F ssisthe steady-state emission factor, mg kg−1hr−1;kisthe decay rate constant, hr−1;Nis the air exchangerate, hr−1; and tis the time, hr.The known parameters in eq 1 are CO mass con-centration ( C(t)), loading factor ( L), and time ( t). Thefitted parameters of initial emission factor (EF 0), decayrate constant ( k), and steady-state emission factor(EF ss) were all given ranges to iteratively identify solu-tions based on minimization of the sum of squareserror. EF sswas added to the decaying source equationin ASTM D5116 to account for an asymptotic approachto a nonzero steady-state value within the limits of thetested time. The ranges and step increments supplied inPROC NLIN were 0.1 –150 by 10 for EF 0, 0.00005 –5b y0.3 for k, and 0.2 –20 by 0.5 for EF ss. The first-orderdecaying source fit was usually best suited for wholebean coffee.For ground coffee, the first-order decaying sourcesolution failed to adequately predict the CO concentra-tion data most of the time, as indicated by poor modelparameter estimates and/or a poorly fitted functionwhen plotted against actual CO concentration data.An alternative technique was chosen that allowed forsmoothing of the data and estimation of an emissionfactor. A nonparametric smoothing function, ProcLOESS, in SAS was used with smoothing parametersranging from 0.01 to 0.2 depending on the data.The maximum observed concentration of COoccurred at the peak of the curve, referred to as thesteady-state maximum, where the emission of CO wasequal to the removal. Regardless of fitting function,maximum observed emission factors at steady-statemaximum were calculated as follows:EFssmax¼Cmax/C2Q=m (2)where EF ssmax is the steady-state maximum emission fac-tor, mg kg−1hr−1;Cmaxis the maximum predicted COconcentration, mg m−3, from the fitted curve; Qis the volu-metric flow rate, m3hr−1; and mis the mass of coffee, kg.Table 1. Distribution of 64 test samples packaged as wholebean or ground coffee at various roast levels.Packaged ground or whole bean Roast level nGround Light 7Medium 16Medium-dark 1Dark 7Whole bean Light 1Medium 14Medium-dark 3Dark 15JOURNAL OF THE AIR & WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 91It should be noted that this is a reduced form of theequation that uses volumetric flow rate and massinstead of air exchange rate and loading factors due tocancellation of chamber volume.The maximum adjusted EF (EF buildup ) may beslightly higher than EF ssmax depending on how fastCO accumulates in the emission chamber during thebuildup portion of the concentration curve, whereemission of CO is greater than removal. EF buildup wasused for all data analysis, with mean ± standard devia-tion presented unless otherwise noted. The timerequired to reach the maximum concentration enablesan adjustment of the EF ssmax to obtain EF buildup usingthe following expression:EFbuildup ¼EFssmax1/C0e/C0Ntmax ðÞ(3)where EF buildup is the adjusted steady-state maximumemission factor, mg kg−1hr−1;E F ssmax is the steady-state maximum emission factor, mg kg−1hr−1;Nisthe air exchange rate, hr−1; and tmaxis the time requiredto reach maximum predicted CO concentration, hr.The effects of determinants of emission factors werevisually represented using box plots, statistically com-pared using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) with posthoc testing (Student ’stfor groups of two and Tukey ’stest for groups of three or more), and generally sum-marized by effect groups. Repeatability of EF buildup wasevaluated using replicate measurements of the samesample over the course of a day. The effect of age wasevaluated by comparing decay rate constants from fit-ting these replicate measurements conducted on thesame day with a decay curve as well as testing threeindividual coffees up to 19 days after the bag was firstopened. The effect of form (ground or whole bean) wasassessed by comparing freshly ground coffee and wholebean emission factors. The effect of roast level wasassessed by comparing emission factors for variousroast levels by form. The effect of packaged ground orfreshly ground coffee was assessed by comparing coffeethat had been packaged in ground form with wholebean coffee that was freshly ground.ResultsRepresentative CO concentration emission curvesGround coffee CO concentration curves ( Figure 1a)generally show higher concentrations and a smootherfit to predicted concentrations than whole bean coffee(Figure 1b ). In Figure 1 , the asterisks are measured COconcentration values and the circles are predicted fromthe fitting function.Repeatability and ageWhole bean EF buildup from a single dark roast coffeewas repeatable across six consecutive trials conductedon the same day, with a precision of 8%. Examining ageeffect, whole bean EF buildup showed a slight decreaseover time, with a decay rate constant of 0.019 hr−1(datanot shown). Packaged ground coffee EF buildup from asingle medium roast decreased over the day, with anemission decay rate of 0.224 hr−1(Figure 2 ). Threeindividual whole bean coffees were tested 7, 14, or19 days after the bag was opened. EF buildup decreased49% over 7 days (from 10.8 to 5.56 mg kg−1hr−1), 67%over 14 days (from 1.32 to 0.44 mg kg−1hr−1), and 37%over 19 days (from 5.68 to 3.58 mg kg−1hr−1).Freshly ground versus whole beanBox plots of coffee form show a large variability (tall box)among freshly ground coffees but relatively low variability(short box) among whole bean coffees ( Figure 3 ). Freshlyground coffee had a significantly increased EF buildup(P< 0.0001; n= 31) compared with whole bean(Figure 3 ). The median difference between freshly groundand whole bean EF buildup was 52.5 mg kg−1hr−1(mean:61.6 mg kg−1hr−1;r a n g e :5 . 2 –137 mg kg−1hr−1).Roast levelBox plots of roast level by form show a large variabilityamong roast levels for ground coffee but relatively lowvariability among roast levels for whole bean coffee(Figure 4 ). Roast level significantly affected emissionsfor ground coffee ( P< 0.001; Figure 4a ), and emissionswere significantly higher for medium-dark and darkroasts than medium and light roasts. Roast level didnot significantly affect emissions for whole bean coffee(P= 0.72; Figure 4b ).Packaged ground versus freshly groundBox plots for coffee originally packaged in ground form(n=34) and freshly ground coffee ( n= 33) show a largevariability between samples within a given group, withthree outliers (represented as dots) observed for pack-aged ground ( Figure 5 ). Freshly ground coffee meanEFbuildup (69.5 ± 33.5 mg kg−1hr−1) was more thandouble that of coffee that was packaged in groundform (30.9 ± 53.6 mg kg−1hr−1); the difference betweenthe means of these groups was statistically significant(P< 0.001).92 R.F. LEBOUF AND M. ALDRIDGEFigure 1. Representative CO concentration (mg m−3) emission curves for (a) ground and (b) whole bean coffee.Asterisks = measured values. Circles = predicted values.Figure 2. Ground coffee emission factor (EF buildup ) consecutivetrials on the same day showing decay over time.Figure 3. Emission factors (EF buildup ) for freshly ground and wholebean coffee ( n= 31 each). Centerline = median; box = interquartilerange; and whiskers = 1.5 times interquartile range.JOURNAL OF THE AIR & WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 93DiscussionIn this study, CO emission factors for whole bean andground coffee were estimated to highlight the impor-tance of monitoring CO in roasted coffee storage spacesin service and manufacturing facilities. The emissioncurves generally took three forms, with two of thembeing the most common. The first curve form wassmooth, increased quickly, peaked, and decayed to anasymptote different from zero (see eq 1 steady-stateemission factor, EF ss)(Figure 1a ); this curve was com-mon and generally observed for ground coffee. Thesecond curve form was lower in magnitude than thefirst form, generally decayed to zero, and had multiplepeaks ( Figure 1b ); this curve was common and gener-ally observed for whole bean coffee. The third curveform was relatively smooth and increased to an asymp-totic value with no observable decay period during thetime tested (not shown); this curve was not commonand occurred due to the equilibrium establishedbetween emission and removal of CO within the cham-ber. Ground coffee produced smoother concentrationcurves ( Figure 1a ) and higher CO emissions ( Figure 3 )than whole bean coffee, which often showed spikes inthe concentration profile ( Figure 1b ). These spikes mayhave been due to an opening of the surface pore spaceallowing for the occluded CO to be released.Higher CO emissions from ground coffee are aresult of increased surface area available for diffusionand the release of trapped gas from the pore structureof the whole bean. The surface area of a whole bean,based on ellipsoid geometry and available length,width, and depth radii, is estimated to be 204 mm2(Severa, Buchar, and Nedomová 2012 ). In a study ofcarbon dioxide degassing from roasted coffee, med-ium ground coffee was found to have an averageparticle radius of 467 µm (Wang and Lim 2014 ). AnFigure 4. Emission factors (EF buildup ) for (a) ground and (b) whole bean at various roast levels. Centerline = median; box =interquartile range; whiskers = 1.5 times interquartile range; and dots = outliers.94 R.F. LEBOUF AND M. ALDRIDGEapproximate surface area of a medium ground coffeeparticle at 0.467 mm, assuming a sphere, is 2.74 mm2.A s s u m i n ga na v e r a g em a s so f0 . 1 4gp e rr o a s t e db e a n(Severa, Buchar, and Nedomová 2012 ) and bulk den-sity of coffee of 0.5 g/mL (Jokanovi ćet al. 2012 ),approximately 700 particles per bean would be pro-duced during a medium grind, with a total surfacearea available for diffusion of 1900 mm2.T h i se q u a t e sto a 9-fold increase in available surface area forground compared with whole bean coffee.Ground coffee CO emission factors generallyincreased with increasing roast level ( Figure 4a ). Thesame relationship did not hold for whole bean coffee,presumably due to trapped gases in the pore structurelimiting emissions ( Figure 4b ). Freshly ground coffeehad higher emission factors than packaged ground cof-fee (Figure 5 ). Wang and Lim ( 2014 ) found that roast-ing at higher temperatures and for shorter timesincreased the whole bean coffee degassing rates forCO 2; however, their tests were conducted over hoursto days, allowing for slow emissions to occur (Wangand Lim 2014 ). Their tests were also conducted with noair flow (i.e., static) changing the evolution dynamics ofemissions; as the concentration in the vessel increases,the concentration gradient decreases, limiting diffusioninto the vessel headspace. In a dynamic test atmo-sphere, such as that used in the current study, the vesselis purged with clean air, removing the emitted gas andmaintaining a sufficient concentration gradient toenable uninhibited or accelerated diffusion.Average CO emissions measured from roasterexhaust stacks have been reported at 49 mg CO/kgroasted coffee from continuous roasters controlledwith thermal oxidizers, and at 740 mg/kg from uncon-trolled continuous roasters (U.S. EnvironmentalProtection Agency [EPA] 1995 ). Although these emis-sions are not directly comparable to the emission fac-tors produced in this study, it demonstrates that a largeamount of CO is produced as a result of combustion ofnatural gas.Occupational CO exposures may occur when enter-ing unventilated or underventilated roasted coffee sto-rage spaces and when working with roasted coffee instorage containers in coffee roasting and packagingfacilities (Hawley, Cox-Ganser, and Cummings 2017 ).Area CO concentrations at the face of, or in storagebins of, roasted whole bean coffee have been measuredup to 223 ppm (NIOSH 2017a ), 410 ppm (NIOSH2017b ), and 473 ppm (NIOSH 2017c ). Assuming10 kg of roasted whole bean coffee with an averageemission factor of 7.8 mg−1kg−1hr−1are stored in a2-m3container with a relatively low air exchange rateof 0.1 hr−1, an estimated average CO air concentrationwould be 340 ppm, which is above the NIOSH ceilinglimit of 200 ppm and compares well with the rangemeasured in the field. Assuming a facility with avolume of 235 m3stored 7000 kg of roasted wholebean coffee, an average CO air concentration wouldbe 203 ppm at an air exchange rate of 1.0 hr−1. Thisassumes a well-mixed room volume, which is typicallynot the case. The probability of overexposure to COwill depend on a number of factors, including amountof roasted coffee stored, how it is stored, whether it isground or whole bean, the room or container volume,Figure 5. Emission factors (EF buildup ) for coffee packaged ground ( n= 34) and whole bean coffee freshly ground ( n= 33), P= 0.0004.Centerline = median; box = interquartile range; whiskers = 1.5 times interquartile range; and dots = outliers.JOURNAL OF THE AIR & WASTE MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION 95mixing effects, air exchange rate, proximity of theemployee to the source, and duration spent next tothe source. Although hypothetical scenarios are usefulfor gauging the extent of a potential risk, monitoringCO concentrations in places where roasted coffee beansare stored is recommended to ensure safe levels exist.ConclusionWorst-case emission factors from commercially avail-able roasted whole bean and ground coffee measured inunpackaged, loose form showed that roasted coffee canrapidly emit CO. Emission factors were higher forground than whole bean coffee. Darker roasts emittedmore CO than lighter roasts when the coffee wasground. CO concentrations should be monitored instorage spaces in service and coffee manufacturingfacilities as well as transport vessels to ensure exposuresdo not exceed occupational exposure limits. Storagespaces may need to be ventilated to control CO con-centrations to safe levels.AcknowledgmentThe authors would like to thank Leonard Zwack and LeeGreenawald for reviewing this paper. This publication issponsored by the Sampling and Laboratory AnalysisCommittee of the American Industrial Hygiene Association.The findings and conclusions in this report are those ofthe authors and do not necessarily represent the views of theNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health(NIOSH). Mention of any company or product does notconstitute endorsement by NIOSH. In addition, citations toWeb sites external to NIOSH do not constitute NIOSHendorsement of the sponsoring organizations or their pro-grams or products. Furthermore, NIOSH is not responsiblefor the content of these Web sites.About the authorsRyan F. LeBouf andMichael Aldridge are researchers in theField Studies Branch, Respiratory Health Division at theNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,Morgantown, WV.ReferencesASTM. 2010 .D5116: Standard Guide for Small-ScaleEnvironmental Chamber Determinations of OrganicEmissions from Indoor Materials/Products . WestConshohocken, PA: ASTM International.ASTM. 2017 .D7706: Standard pracdtice for rapid screening ofVOC emissions from products using micro-scale chambers .West Conshohocken, PA: ASTM International.EPA. 1995 .Emission Factor Documentation for AP-42, Section9.13.2: Coffee Roasting ,Final Report ; EPA Contract 68-D2-0159. https://www3.epa.gov/ttn chie1/ap42/ch09/bgdocs/b9s13-2.pdf (accessed June 20, 2018).Hawley, B., J. Cox-Ganser, and K. Cummings. 2017 . CarbonMonoxide Exposure in Workplaces, Including CoffeeProcessing Facilities. Am. J Respir. Crit. Care Med . 196(8):1080 –1081. doi: 10.1164/rccm.201703-0513LE .Jokanovi ć, M. R., N. R. D žinić, B. R. Cvetkovi ć, S. Gruji ć, andB. Od žakovi ć.2012 . Changes of physical properties ofcoffee beans during roasting. APTEFF 43:21 –31.doi:10.2298/APT1243021J .Newton, J. 2002 . Carbon Monoxide Exposure from CoffeeRoasting. Appl. Occup. Environ. Hyg. 17 (9):600 –602.doi:10.1080/10473220290095899 .NIOSH. 1996 . NMAM 6604: Carbon Monoxide. https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/2014-151/pdfs/methods/6604.pdf(June 20, 2018).NIOSH. 2017a .Health hazard evaluation report: Evaluationof exposures and respiratory health at a coffee processingfacility . By Fechter-Leggett ED, Boylstein RJ, Stanton ML.Morgantown, WV: US Department of Health and HumanServices, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health,NIOSH HHE Report No. 2015-0147-3266.NIOSH. 2017b .Health hazard evaluation report: Evaluationof exposures and respiratory health at a coffee roasting andpackaging facility ; By LeBouf RF, Martin SBJ, Mugford C,Stanton ML, Bailey RL. Morgantown, WV: US Departmentof Health and Human Services, Centers for DiseaseControl and Prevention, National Institute forOccupational Safety and Health, NIOSH HHE ReportNo. 2015-0082-3287.NIOSH. 2017c .Health hazard evaluation report: Evaluationof exposures and respiratory health at a coffee roasting andpackaging facility and attached retail café ; By LeBouf RF,Martin SBJ, Stanton ML, Mugford C, Bailey RL.Morgantown, WV: US Department of Health andHuman Services, Centers for Disease Control andPrevention, National Institute for Occupational Safetyand Health, NIOSH HHE Report No. 2016-0003-3299.Nishimura, F., S. Abe, and T. Fukunaga. 2003 . Carbon mon-oxide poisoning from industrial coffee extraction. JAMA290 (3):334. doi: 10.1001/jama.290.3.334 .Schenker, S., S. Handschin, B. Frey, R. Perren, and F. Escher.2000 . Pore Structure of Coffee Beans Affected by RoastingConditions. J. Food Sci. 65 (3):452 –457. doi: 10.1111/jfds.2000.65.issue-3 .Severa, L., J. Buchar, and Š. Nedomová. 2012 . Shape and SizeVariability of Roasted Arabica Coffee Beans. Int. J. FoodPro. 15 (2):426 –437. doi: 10.1080/10942912.2010.487967 .Wang, X., and L.-T. Lim. 2014 . Effect of roasting conditionson carbon dioxide degassing behavior in coffee. Food Res.Int.61:144 –151. doi: 10.1016/j.foodres.2014.01.027 .96 R.F. LEBOUF AND M. ALDRIDGE