Deciphering microbial mechanisms underlying soil organic carbonstorage in a wheat-maize rotation systemXingjie Wua, Pengfei Liub, Carl-Eric Wegnerc,Y uL u od,K e - Q i n gX i a oe,Z h e n l i n gC u ia, Fusuo Zhanga,Werner Liesackf, Jingjing Penga,⁎aCollege of Resources and Environmental Sciences, National Academy of Agriculture Green Development, Key Laboratory of Plant-Soil Interactions, M inistry of Education, China AgriculturalUniversity, Beijing 100193, ChinabCenter for the Pan-third Pole Environment, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, ChinacInstitute of Biodiversity, Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Jena 07743, GermanydInstitute of Soil and Water Resources and Environmental Science, Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Agricultural Resources and Environment, Zh ejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, ChinaeSchool of Earth and Environment, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9JT, UKfResearch Group “Methanotrophic Bacteria and Environmental Genomics/Transcriptomics ”, Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology, Marburg 35043, GermanyHIGHLIGHTS•Organic material amendments signi ﬁ-cantly increased soil carbon storage ef ﬁ-ciency.•Organic manure addition enriched forgenes indicative of cellular growth strat-egies.•Chemical fertilizer enriched for genesinvolved in resource acquisition andcompetition.•Soil amended with peat-vermiculitewas dominated by a mix of r-a n d K-selected microbes.•Gemmatimonadetes showed a negativecorrelation to soil carbon storageefﬁciency.GRAPHICAL ABSTRACTabstract article infoArticle history:Received 14 February 2021Received in revised form 10 May 2021Accepted 11 May 2021Available online 15 May 2021Editor: Jay GanKeywords:BacteriaFungiLife history strategyMetagenomicsMAGsOrganic carbonA link between microbial life history strategies and soil organic carbon storage in agroecosystems is presumed,but largely unexplored at the gene level. We aimed to elucidate whether and how differential organic materialamendments (manure versus peat-vermiculite) affect, relative to sole chemical fertilizer application, the link be-tween microbial life history strategies and soil organic carbon storage in a wheat-maize rotation ﬁeld experiment.To achieve this goal, we combined bacterial 16S rRNA gene and fungal ITS amplicon sequencing, metagenomicsand the assembly of genomes. Fertilizer treatments had a signi ﬁcantly greater effect on microbial communitycomposition than aggregate size, with soil available phosphorus and potassium being the most importantcommunity-shaping factors. Limitation in labile carbon was linked to a K-selected oligotrophic life history strat-egy ( Gemmatimonadetes ,Acidobacteria ) under sole chemical fertilizer application; de ﬁned by a signi ﬁcant enrich-ment of genes involved in resource acquisition, polymer hydrolysis, and competition. By contrast, excess of labilecarbon promoted an r-selected copiotrophic life history strategy ( Cytophagales ,Bacillales ,Mortierellomycota )under manure treatment; de ﬁned by a signi ﬁcant enrichment of genes involved in cellular growth. A distinctlife history strategy was not observed under peat-vermiculite treatment, but rather a mix of both K-selected(Acidobacteria )a n d r-selected ( Actinobacteria ,Mortierellomycota ) microorganisms. Compared to sole chemicalScience of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 147798⁎Corresponding author.E-mail address: jingjing.peng@cau.edu.cn (J. Peng).https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.1477980048-9697/© 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Contents lists available at ScienceDirectScience of the Total Environmentjournal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scitotenvfertilizer application, soil organic carbon storage ef ﬁciency was signi ﬁcantly increased by 26.5% and 50.0% undermanure and peat-vermiculite treatments, respectively. Taken together, our results highlight the importance oforganic material amendments, but in particular a one-time peat-vermiculite application, to promote soil organiccarbon storage as a potential management strategy for sustainable agriculture.©2 0 2 1E l s e v i e rB . V .A l lr i g h t sr e s e r v e d .1. IntroductionThe accumulation of soil organic carbon in agroecosystems is aglobal priority for increasing crop productivity, while concurrently com-pensating for the adverse effects of greenhouse gas emissions ( Lal,2004 ;Wiesmeier et al., 2019 ). Recycling organic materials to ﬁelds iscritical for mitigating land degradation and improving soil fertility ( Liuet al., 2020 ). A global meta-analysis revealed that plant residue incorpo-ration can, on average, increase soil organic carbon (SOC) level by 14.9%(Xia et al., 2018 ). However, soil organic carbon storage ef ﬁciency (CSE)varies depending on soil type, geographical location, and organic mate-rial ( Yan et al., 2013 ;Dodor et al., 2018 ;Wan et al., 2021 ). Soil CSE hasbeen shown to be positively or negatively affected by organic materialamendments ( Zhou et al., 2016 ;Dodor et al., 2018 ). Despite the factthat organic material amendments can build up SOC due to mineralbinding, the subsequent organic carbon decomposition by priming ef-fects can potentially lead to SOC losses and offset the ef ﬁciency of SOCsequestration ( Luo et al., 2017 ;Feng and Zhu, 2021 ). For instance, glu-cose addition can simultaneously induce both CO 2release and organiccarbon decomposition through microbial biomass turnover ( Bastidaet al., 2019 ;Luo et al., 2017 ). This uncertain fate of newly formed SOCis mainly determined by the activity of soil microbes, which mediate80–90% of soil carbon cycling ( Liang et al., 2017 ). Therefore, decipheringthe microbial mechanisms driving organic material amendments to-wards SOC storage is crucial for sustainable carbon management inagroecosystems.Microbial traits involved in SOC storage can be differentiated intotwo distinct microbial life history strategies: oligotrophy versuscopiotrophy (slow-growing vs. fast-growing microorganisms) ( Fiereret al., 2007 ;Fierer et al., 2012 ;Ho et al., 2017 ).K-selected oligotrophswith long life expectancy and less investment into reproduction arewell adapted to a wide range of niches de ﬁned by environmental stress(e.g., nutrient limitation, high salinity, or low pH) ( Malik et al., 2019 ;Malik et al., 2020 ). Contrary to stress-tolerant oligotrophs, r-selectedcopiotrophs thrive in niches with high nutrient availability and lowstress exposure, but have low life expectancy ( Pianka, 1970 ;Ramirezet al., 2012 ). Copiotrophs have been shown to invest more energythan oligotrophs into cellular growth and cell reproduction with highbiomass yield ( Lipson, 2015 ). Trade-offs in functional traits and ecolog-ical strategies determine the microbial decomposition of SOC, primarilydue to the investment into enzyme production including carbohydrate-active enzymes ( Wilhelm et al., 2019 ;Shao et al., 2021 ). In consequence,K-selected microbes are expected to make a major investment into thedecomposition of complex organic matter by release of extracellular en-zymes ( Ho et al., 2017 ;Malik et al., 2020 ). By contrast, the activity of r-selected microbes results in transiently high microbial biomass, therebycontributing to long-term SOC storage by recalcitrant necromass accu-mulation ( Kallenbach et al., 2016 ;Liang et al., 2017 ). Current advancesin meta-omics approaches allow us to characterize the functional traitsthat are linked to distinct microbial life history strategies ( Leff et al.,2015 ;Chen et al., 2020 ;Malik et al., 2020 ). A better understanding ofthe factors governing soil organic carbon decomposition versus SOCstorage demands a deeper insight into the diversity, structure, and ge-netic potential of microbial communities involved in soil carbon cycling.Soil aggregate formation is known to be an important factor thatcontrols soil carbon sequestration ( Six et al., 2006 ;Garcia-Francoet al., 2015 ). Microbes can be spatially and functionally interconnectedand closely associated with soil aggregates ( Dang et al., 2021 ;Wilpiszeski et al., 2019 ). Different aggregate size classes harbor diversemicrobiota. For instance, macroaggregates (0.25 –2 mm), composed ofmore labile substrates, are abundantly colonized by Actinobacteria ,Planctomycetes ,a n d Alphaproteobacteria (Trivedi et al., 2015 ), whileAcidobacteria and Bacteroidetes were found to be more prominent onmicroaggregates that are characterized by a high proportion of recalci-trant organic matter ( Lin et al., 2019 ;Trivedi et al., 2017 ). Therefore, mi-crobial utilization of organic carbon and, in consequence, microbial lifehistory strategies should differ among soil aggregate size classes. How-ever, environmental genomics, or metagenomics, has not yet beenwidely applied to disentangle the genetic potential associated with par-ticular aggregate size classes under distinct fertilizer treatments.Recycling organic materials to ﬁelds is a traditional organic farmingpractice in agroecosystem. Organic manure is more widely appliedand studied than peat-vermiculite ( Zhong et al., 2010 ;Ding et al.,2017 ). However, peat-vermiculite amendments can greatly improvesoil structure, thereby increasing both SOC and crop yield ( Pan et al.,2020 ;Wu et al., 2021 ). Therefore, we conducted a ﬁeld experimentwith a single-time application of peat-vermiculite plus continuouschemical fertilizer treatments (PV) versus seasonal treatments with cat-tle manure plus chemical fertilizer (OM). The study site is located inNorthern China Plain with a typical wheat-maize rotation system. Theoverall goals of this study are to address: (i) What are the direct and in-direct effects of organic material amendments on microbiome composi-tion and its genetic potential; and (ii) how strongly is soil CSE affectedby biotic versus abiotic factors. Sole application of chemical fertilizer(CF) each season was conducted as a control treatment. The three fertil-izer practices strongly differ in SOC quantity and quality. Organic ma-nure is de ﬁned by labile compounds that are easily accessible bymicrobes, while peat is composed of recalcitrant polymers that are dif-ﬁcult to be degraded by microbes ( Kirchman et al., 2004 ). Therefore,we hypothesize the following: (i) The microbiomes enriched by theOM and PV treatments will show distinct life history strategies thatare closely linked to CSE. (ii) The CF treatment will show a high abun-dance of genes encoding carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes)given that the CF microbiome is limited in labile carbon, but not inother nutrients. In order to test our hypothesis, Soil CSE was calculatedbased on the changes in SOC stock divided by total carbon inputs duringthe experimental period. Genes involved in the decomposition of com-plex carbon sources, such as cellulose, hemicellulose and xylan, wereidenti ﬁed using a genome-resolved metagenomics approach. Alto-gether, we determined multiple biotic and abiotic soil parameters, bac-terial and fungal diversity, and the metagenomic distribution of genesindicative of distinct life history strategies, including carbon decomposi-tion potential (e.g., CAZymes), across the three fertilizer treatments andtheir aggregate size classes.2. Materials and methods2.1. Study siteThe study site is a wheat-maize rotation system located in Quzhou,Hebei Province (115.0°E, 36.9°N). The soil is silty clay and classi ﬁed ascalcareous ﬂuvo-aquic soil ( IUSS Working Group WRB, 2015 ). Thisarea has a monsoonal, continental and sub-humid climate with averageannual temperature and precipitation of 13.2 °C and 490 mm, respec-tively. Initiated in October 2014 (maize season), the ﬁeld experimentincluded three different treatments. The chemical fertilizer (CF)X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 1477982contained 150 kg N ha−1,4 5k gPh a−1, and 45 kg K ha−1. CF was ap-plied as a basic fertilizer in each wheat and maize season as a controltreatment. Organic manure plus chemical fertilizer (OM) was appliedwith the same chemical fertilizer application as CF plus 12 Mg cattle ma-nure ha−1(OM applied before wheat sowing each year). The peat-vermiculite plus chemical fertilizer (PV), with peat-vermiculite beingapplied with 129 Mg ha−1for a single time in October 2014 and thechemical fertilizer being continuously applied in each wheat andmaize season. The chemical properties of the two organic materialamendments are shown in Table S1. All three experimental treatments(CF, OM, PV) were managed with the integrated soil-crop system thathad been proposed to yield more grain with lower environmentalcosts ( Chen et al., 2011 ). Winter wheat and summer maize wereplanted in October and July after the previous crop harvest, respectively.As a basic carbon stock, all the crop straw residues were returned to theﬁeld after harvest. Irrigation was applied in wheat season according tocrop demand and precipitation. The experimental ﬁeld was plowed ata depth of 30 cm before wheat sowing each year.2.2. Soil samplingUsing an aluminum corer, three undisturbed soil cores (5 (height) ×10 cm (diameter)) were taken from the tillage soil after maize harvestfrom each plot in 2019. The area of each plot was 46 m2. A total of 27soil undisturbed soil cores were collected randomly (3 treatments × 3replicates × 3 cores) and immediately transported on ice to the labora-tory. Soil cores were carefully broken apart along the natural breakpoints. Rocks, crop residues, and roots were removed. The three corestaken from the same plot were combined to produce a composite sam-ple for each plot. Aliquots of each sample were stored at 4 °C for analysisof soil chemical properties.2.3. Soil aggregate fractionationTo minimize disruption of the microbial community during the aggre-gate size fractionation, we applied t he microbially-focused method as de-scribed by Bach and Hofmockel (2014) . In brief, plant roots and leaveswere removed after the soil had been spread onto a sterile vessel andair-dried to a consistent moisture content (~10%). Soil aggregates wereseparated by placing soil on a series of sieves. The stack was shaken for4 min at a rate of 30 times per minute. The soil was sieved through2 mm and 0.25 mm mesh to obtain large macroaggregates (>2 mm,LM), small macroaggregates (0.25 –2 mm, SM), and microaggregates(<0.25 mm, M). A total of 27 soil aggregate samples were produced (3treatments × 3 plots × 3 different aggregate size classes).2.4. Soil properties characterizationSOC and total N contents were determined using the Vario Max CNelemental analyzer after removal of soil carbonate by 1 mol L−1HCl(Elementar, Langenselbold, Germany). Brie ﬂy, 5 g air-dried soil wastreated with 50 mL 1 mol L−1HCl for 24 h. Then, the soil was water-washed to remove Cl−1for CN analysis. Soil mineral nitrogen, includingNO3−-N and NH 4+-N, was extracted by 0.01 mol L−1CaCl 2solution andmeasured in continuous ﬂow analysis ( Pan et al., 2020 ;Wu et al.,2021 ). Soil available K and available P were measured according toHanway and Heidel (1952) andOlsen et al. (1954) , respectively. SoilpH was determined using a 1:2.5 ratio of soil to deionized water. Mea-surements were done with a pH meter (FE20-FiveEasy ™pH, MettlerToledo). SOC stock was calculated using the following equation: SOCstock (Mg ha−1)=S O C( gk g−1) × BD (Mg m−3)×D( m ) / 1 0( Novaraet al., 2015 ). The BD and D in the equation represented soil bulk densityand depth. Crop residue and root carbon inputs were included in thetotal carbon inputs according to wheat and maize above-ground bio-mass in the ﬁve years of ﬁeld experiment (2015 to 2019). Speci ﬁcally,root carbon inputs were calculated as the 30% of total above-groundbiomass carbon according to Kundu et al. (2007) . SOC storage ratio(%) = (SOC stock treatment −SOC initial)/total organic carbon inputs.SOC stock treatment and SOC initial were the SOC storage before the ex-periment and SOC storage in the sampling time (maize harvest in Octo-ber 2019) ( Yan et al., 2013 ).2.5. DNA extraction and amplicon sequencingGenomic DNA was extracted from 2 g soil of each of the 27aggregate-size class samples, using the FastDNA Spin Kit for Soil (MPBiochemicals, LLC, America) according to the manufacturer's instruc-tions. DNA quality and quantity were determined by NanoDrop spectro-photometry (Thermo Fisher Scienti ﬁc). The V4-V5 region of bacterial16S rRNA genes and fungal ITS regions were PCR-ampli ﬁed for sequenc-ing using the primer pairs 515F/909R ( Tamaki et al., 2011 ) and ITS3-2024F/ITS4-2409R ( Bellemain et al., 2010 ), respectively. These primerscontained an 8-nucleotide barcode sequence unique to each sample.PCR reaction conditions and ampli ﬁcation steps are listed in Table S2.PCR products were puri ﬁed using the Qiagen Gel Extraction Kit (Qiagen,Germany) following the manufacturer's instructions. The indexed andpuriﬁed PCR products were pooled in equal amounts and sequencedusing the Illumina MiSeq platform in paired-end mode (2 × 250 bp)(Novogene, Tianjin, China). Paired-end reads were quality ﬁltered andtrimmed using Trimmomatic with default parameters ( Bolger et al.,2014 ). The quality-trimmed paired-end reads were merged usingFLASH v.1.2.9 ( Magoc and Salzberg, 2011 ) with default settings. Thesehigh-quality reads were subjected to chimera detection using UCHIME(Edgar, 2011 ). Sequence similarities of 97% and 95% were applied tocluster the paired-end reads into operational taxonomy units (OTUs)using the UPARSE series of scripts for bacteria and fungi, respectively(Edgar, 2013 ). Singletons and chimeric reads were excluded from fur-ther OTU analysis. Representative sequences of each OTU of the 16SrRNA gene and ITS data sets were taxonomically assigned employingthe RDP classi ﬁer (Wang et al., 2007 ) against the SILVA SSU rRNA data-base 138 ( Quast et al., 2013 ) and UNITE database (version 7.2) ( Nilssonet al., 2019 ), respectively. OTUs that could not be assigned to the bacte-rial domain or fungal kingdom were removed from the OTU tables. Onaverage, 60,257 and 80,161 reads per sample were obtained for eachbacterial 16S rRNA gene and fungal ITS sequence dataset, respectively.Less than 10-fold difference among the library sizes was observed inour study ( Weiss et al., 2017 ). Thus, the sequence datasets were rare ﬁedto 36,804 and 64,981 reads per sample for the 16S rRNA gene and ITS re-gion, respectively.2.6. Metagenomic sequencing and CAZyme annotationThe 27 DNA extracts subjected to amplicon sequencing were alsoused for metagenomic analysis. Sequencing was done using IlluminaHiseq 2000 platform in 2 × 150 bp paired-end mode, resulting in atotal dataset of 412.84 Gb. Low-quality reads wereﬁltered byTrimmomatic ( Bolger et al., 2014 ). Then, the high-quality reads were as-sembled with MEGAHIT (mink = 27, maxk = 141, and step = 20) ( Liet al., 2015 ). CAZyme-encoding genes involved in the decompositionof cellulose, xylan, pectin, hemicellulose and chitin were annotated asdescribed previously ( Peng et al., 2018 ). Brie ﬂy, genes on metagenomecontigs were queried against the CAZy database (2019) maintained bythe dbCAN consortium ( Zhang et al., 2018 ) using diamond software(E-value threshold of 10−5). FragGeneScan 1.30 ( Rho et al., 2010 )w a sused to predict genes on all contigs and convert their nucleotide se-quences into amino acid sequences. Individual CAZyme modules(e.g., cellulose, hemicellulose, etc.) were de ﬁned by grouping relatedenzymatic functions based on their enzyme commission numbers. Amapping ﬁle linking dbCAN sequences to de ﬁned CAZyme moduleswas generated using a custom python script ( Peng et al., 2018 ). Theresulting annotations are based on matching dbCAN top hits againstthe mapping ﬁle (Yin et al., 2012 ). All datasets were normalized.X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 14779832.7. Reconstruction of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs)Assembled contigs with a length >1000 bp were further binnedusing metaBAT2 with default settings ( Kang et al., 2015 ). Completenessand contamination of the binned genomes were checked by CheckM(v1.1.2; Parks et al., 2015 ). MAGs estimated to have >70% completenessand <10% contamination were selected for taxonomic assignment andfunctional annotation. Taxonomic classi ﬁcation and phylogenetic tree-ing of assembled MAGs were performed using GTDB-Tk (v1.3.0,Chaumeil et al., 2019 ). High-quality MAGs were subjected to gene pre-diction using Prokka (v1.14.6). Predicted genes were blasted againstNCBI non-redundant protein database and Kyoto Encyclopedia ofGenes and Genomes (KEGG) database with Diamond using an E-valuethreshold of 10−5(Kanehisa and Goto, 2000 ).2.8. Statistical analysisAll statistical analyses were performed using R (version 3.6.1). Sam-ples from fertilizer treatments (CF, OM and PV) and, respectively, theiraggregate sizes (LM, SM and M) were pooled for Duncan multiple com-parisons test. Pvalues were False Discovery Rate (FDR) corrected bymultiple testing using the Benjamini-Hochberg method ( Ferreira,2007 ). To assess the impact of the different fertilizer treatments on mi-crobial functional traits and life history strategies, genetic traits of thesoil microbiomes were classi ﬁed into the categories “resource acquisi-tion ”versus “cellular growth ”based on literature ( Chen et al., 2020 ;Malik et al., 2020 ;Shao et al., 2021 ). Brie ﬂy, genes involved in polymerhydrolysis (e.g., encoding extracellular enzymes) and organic carbondecomposition, but also those involved in defense and antagonism,were assigned to “resource acquisition ”, while genes involved in biosyn-thesis of cellular components (e.g., amino acids, fatty acids, and nucleicacids) were assigned to “cellular growth ”(Malik et al., 2020 ). Alpha di-versity, represented by Shannon index, was visualized using ggplot2package ( Gómez-Rubio, 2017 ). Unconstrained principal coordinatesanalysis (PCoA) based on a Bray-Curtis distance matrix was performedto quantify the major variance components of beta diversity. Permuta-tional multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) was further ap-plied to quantify the effects of fertilization treatments and soilaggregate sizes on the microbial community based on Bray-Curtis dis-tances using the vegan package ( Oksanen et al., 2007 ). Correlations be-tween microbial community/functional traits and soil physico-chemicalparameters were determined by Spearman's correlations analysis. Theabundance of dominant phyla was Z-scored transformed and visualizedin the format of a heatmap. Random forest analysis was applied to as-sess the impact of particular soil properties on microbial diversityusing the R package randomForest . The impact of each predictor is indi-cated by the mean squared error (MSE). Regression analysis was used totest the signi ﬁcance of each predictor.2.9. Data depositionA total of 54 amplicon sequence datasets (27 for bacterial 16S rRNAgenes and 27 for fungal ITS regions) and, in addition, 27 metagenomicsequence datasets were deposited with NCBI Sequence Read Archive(SRA) under the accession numbers PRJNA610098 and PRJNA640885.3. Results3.1. Soil properties and SOC storageSOC content was signi ﬁcantly increased in the OM (20.16 g kg−1)and PV treatments (22.41 g kg−1) relative to the CF treatment(12.51 g kg−1)(PFDR< 0.05) (Fig. S1). Total N content concomitantly in-creased 1.5-fold (OM) and 1.4-fold (PV) relative to the CF treatment, butnitrogen was also non-limiting for the microbial community associatedwith the CF treatment (Fig. S1). No signi ﬁcant difference in SOC andtotal N contents was observed between the different soil aggregatesize classes of each treatment (Fig. S1). The OM treatment showed thegreatest available P and available K contents. These were signi ﬁcantlydifferent from those of the CF and PV treatments ( PFDR< 0.001). SoilNO3−-N signi ﬁcantly increased in the OM and PV treatments relative tothe CF treatment ( PFDR< 0.05), while all three treatments had no differ-ential effect on the soil NH 4+-N content and pH. Compared to CF treat-ment, the OM and PV treatments signi ﬁcantly increased soil CSE by26.5% and 50.0%, respectively ( PFDR<0 . 0 5 ; Table 1 ).3.2. Diversity and composition of the soil microbial communityBacterial α-diversity, as expressed by Shannon diversity index, wasthe greatest in the manure treatment (OM). Fungal α-diversity showedas i g n i ﬁcantly positive correlation with SOC content ( PFDR<0 . 0 1 )(Fig. 1 ). However, soil aggregate size had no signi ﬁcant effect onbacterial and fungal α-diversity. The fertilization treatments had amuch greater effect on the bacterial and fungal community composition(27.0% vs. 56.7%; PFDR< 0.001) than aggregate size (8.9% vs. 9.4%;PFDR< 0.01) (PERMANOVA, Fig. S2). Bacterial and fungal communitiesformed distinct, treatment-speci ﬁc clusters (PCoA of β-diversity,Fig. 1 e, f). Soil C:N, available K, available P, and SOC were the dominantpredictors for CSE (random forest analysis, Fig. S3). Correlation analysisrevealed that available K and available P were positively linked to mi-crobial diversity, while the C:P and N:P ratios were negatively correlatedwith microbial diversity ( PFDR< 0.05; Fig. S4).Organic material amendments had signi ﬁcant effects on microbialcommunity composition ( Figs. 2 & S5). The phylum Gemmatimonadeteswas highly abundant in CF treatment and negatively correlated withSOC content ( PFDR<0 . 0 1 ) . Actinobacteria were particularly enriched insamples of the PV treatment, while Cytophagales (Bacteroidetes )a n dBacillales (Firmicutes ) showed a greater relative abundance in the OMtreatment than in the other two treatments ( PFDR< 0.05; Figs. 2 ; S5).TheMortierellomycota , with the fungal order Mortierellales being highlyabundant (Fig. S5), was identi ﬁed to be the most important predictor forsoil CSE, followed by Gemmatimonadetes ,Actinobacteria ,a n dRokubacteria (Fig. 2 ). The relative abundances of both MortierellomycotaandActinobacteria were positively and signi ﬁcantly correlated with soilCSE, while Gemmatimonadetes and Rokubacteria were negatively andsigniﬁcantly correlated with soil CSE ( PFDR<0 . 0 5 ; Fig. 2 ).3.3. Treatment-speci ﬁc effects on genetic life history potentialOn KEGG level 3, genes involved in resource acquisition (e.g., starchand sucrose metabolism ,secretion system ,sulfur metabolism ,fructose andTable 1SOC storage ef ﬁciency.Treatments SOC stock in 2015 SOC stock in 2019 Changes in in SOC stock Total organic carboninput (Mg ha−1)SOC storage ef ﬁciency from total organic carbon input(Mg ha−1) (Mg ha−1) (Mg ha−1) Straw Amendments (%)CF 34.29 48.07 13.78 40.55 0.00 0.34 a1OM 46.57 78.31 31.74 49.44 24.48 0.43 bPV 34.29 79.51 45.22 47.51 40.50 0.51 b1Different letters (a, b) indicate signi ﬁcant differences in SOC storage ef ﬁciency between the fertilizer treatments ( PFDR< 0.05).X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 1477984mannose metabolism , and bacterial secretion system ) and competition(e.g., antimicrobial resistance genes andenediyne antibiotics ) were signif-icantly enriched in the microbiome associated with the CF treatment(PFDR< 0.05). By contrast, genes involved in cellular growth, such as ri-bosome biogenesis ,transfer RNA biogenesis ,transcription factors ,arginineand lysine biosynthesis ,a n d lipid metabolism were, relative to the CFtreatment, signi ﬁcantly enriched in the microbiome associated withthe OM treatment ( PFDR< 0.05). In the microbiome associated withthe PV treatment, the abundance of genes af ﬁliated with either resourceacquisition or cellular growth did not signi ﬁcantly differ to those in bothCF and OM treatments ( Fig. 3 ).3.4. CAZyme genes involved in C decompositionCompared to CF treatment, the microbiomes associated with the OMand PV treatments showed a lower abundance of polymeric carbondecomposition-related genes ( Fig. 4 ). In particular, the abundance ofCAZyme genes involved in cellulose, hemicellulose, and pectinutilization was signi ﬁcantly lower in the microbial communitiesassociated with the OM treatment ( PFDR< 0.05). A similar but statisti-cally insigni ﬁcant trend was observed for the microbiome associatedwith the PV treatment ( PFDR> 0.05). The microbial communitiesresiding on large macroaggregates (>2 mm) and macroaggregatesbaa(b)baab(a)(c)(e)(d)(f)Fig. 1. Boxplots showing the bacterial and fungal alpha (Shannon) diversity across the aggregate size classes of each fertilizer treatment (a, b); correlat ion of bacterial and fungal alphadiversity with soil SOC content (c, d); and Principal Component Analysis (PCoA) of bacterial and fungal communities based on Bray-Curtis dissimilar ities (e, f). The analyses are basedon amplicon sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA genes and fungal ITS region. CF: chemical fertilizer; OM: organic manure plus chemical fertilizer; PV: p eat-vermiculite plus chemicalfertilizer. LM: large macroaggregates; SM: small macroaggregates; M: microaggregates. Different letters (a, b, c) indicate signi ﬁcant differences between fertilizer treatments ( PFDR<0 . 0 5 ) .X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 1477985(0.25 –2 mm) harbored, relative to those associated withmicroaggregates (<0.25 mm), a signi ﬁcantly greater number ofCAZyme genes involved in cellulose and xylan utilization ( PFDR<0.05). The microbial populations associated with macroaggregates(0.25 –2 mm) showed a signi ﬁcantly greater number of CAZymegenes involved in chitin and hemicellulose utilization than those associ-ated with large macroaggregates (>2 mm) and microaggregates(<0.25 mm) ( PFDR< 0.05) (Fig. S6).3.5. MAGs driving enhanced soil CSETwenty high-quality MAGs (>70% completeness and <10% contami-nation) were reconstructed and classi ﬁed as belonging to theAcidobacteria (3),Actinobacteria (5),Chloro ﬂexi(2),Gemmatimonadetes(1), Krumholzibacteriota (1), and Proteobacteria (8) ( Fig. 5 , Table S4).Four MAGs assigned to Acidobacteria (bin_OL2.19, bin_OL2.50 andbin_OM3.11) and Gemmatimonadetes (bin_OL2.37) were highly abun-dant in the CF treatment across all soil aggregate size classes, while ﬁveMAGs classi ﬁed as Actinobacteria (bin_GS2.13, bin_GS2.5, bin_OS3.17,bin_GS3.19 and bin_OL2.27) were more abundant in the OM and PVtreatments. The Gemmatimonadetes MAG (bin_OL2.37) was detectedwith relatively high metagenomic abundance of up to 0.36% on large mac-roaggregates (>2 mm) of the CF treatment. By contrast, two MAGsassigned to Actinobacteria (bin_GS3.19) and Chloro ﬂexi(bin_GS2.21)showed a high metagenomic abundance of up to 0.34% and 0.24% onmicroaggregates (<0.25 mm) of the OM and PV treatments, respectively(Fig. S7). CAZyme genes were detected with high but varying genomicabundance across all 20 MAGs. In fact, CAZyme genes involved in the hy-drolysis of cellulose, cellobiose, xylan, pectin, starch/glycogen, peptidogly-can, and lignin ranged from 364 to 953 genes per MAG. The relativeabundance of ﬁve high-quality MAGs af ﬁliated to the Krumholzibacteria ,Steroidobacterales (Gammaproteobacteria ),Chloro ﬂexi,Solirubrobacterales ,and Jiangellales were positively associated with soil CSE, while twoMAGs ( Thermoanaerobaculia and Gemmatimonadetes ) were negativelycorrelated with soil CSE ( Figs. 5 and S7). The orders Solirubrobacteralesand Jiangellales belong to the Actinobacteria , while the Thermo-anaerobaculia represent a class in the Acidobacteria (Dedysh andLawson, 2020 ).4. DiscussionPrevious metagenomic research con ﬁrmed trade-offs between dif-ferent microbial life history strategies, but in particular between the cel-lular growth and resource acquisition strategies ( Chen et al., 2020 ;Malik et al., 2020 ). These trade-offs depend on microbial resource avail-ability and microbial community composition ( Ramirez et al., 2010 ;Melillo et al., 2017 ). In our study, both PCR-sequencing and functionalmetagenomics provided evidence that the three fertilizer regimes (CF,OM, PV) promoted distinct life history trade-offs affecting SOC storage,due to the major differences in microbial resource availability. More-over, PERMANOVA showed that fertilizer type, rather than differingsoil aggregate size classes, determined microbial community composi-tion and life history strategy. In our further discussion, we thereforemainly focus on the fertilization effects.MortierellomycotaGemmatimonadetesActinobacteriaRokubacteriaVerrucomicrobiaAscomycotaNitrospiraeBacteroidetesFirmicutesKickxellomycotaChloroflexiBasidiomycotaChytridiomycotaAcidobacteriaPlanctomycetesProteobacteriaChange in MSE% CF   OM   PV SOC NO3- NH4+ AK  TN   AP   pH   C:N  N:P  C:P CSE********Fig. 2. Impact of dominant bacterial phyla and fungal kingdoms on SOC storage as predicted for the fertilizer treatments by random forest analysis; and abund ance correlation betweenparticular microbial taxa and soil chemical properties. The phyla Bacteroidetes andFirmicutes refer to the orders Cytophagales andBacillales . The analyses are based on PCR sequencing ofbacterial 16S rRNA genes and fungal ITS regind classi ﬁed as calcareouson. MSE% indicates the importance of each taxonomic group (=predictor) for soil CSE. The abundance of each taxonwas z-scored transformed and is shown in the format of a heatmap, involving the combined analysis of all three aggregate size classes for each treatmen t (CF, OM, and PV). The key showsthe z-scores of the relative abundances. Each asterisk indicates that the given taxon was signi ﬁcantly enriched in a particular fertilizer treatment relative to the other treatment(s) ( PFDR<0.05). Asterisks, but also dot size and color (see scale), indicate a signi ﬁcant association between microbial taxa and particular soil chemical properties: “*”PFDR<0 . 0 5 , “**”PFDR< 0.01, and“***”PFDR<0 . 0 0 1 .X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 14779864.1. The impact of the fertilizer regimes on microbial life history strategiesThe CF treatment was poor in labile carbon, but received a seasonalinput of plant residues. Previous research has shown that glycosylhydrolase-encoding genes are abundant and diverse among microbialcommunities that inhabit soils with limited nutrient supply of labile car-bon ( Zhalnina et al., 2018 ;Malik et al., 2020 ). We therefore assumedthat the CF microbiome strongly depends on the production of extracellu-lar enzymes to hydrolyze plant polymers. In fact, the CF metagenomeshowed a signi ﬁcantly greater abundance of glycosyl hydrolase genes in-volved in decomposing cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin than the OMand PV metagenomes ( Fig. 4 ). We concluded that the microbiome associ-ated with CF treatment had a K-selected life history strategy, i.e., aresource-acquisi tion strategy de ﬁned by slow growth rates, ef ﬁcient nutri-ent uptake systems and high substrate af ﬁnity ( Shao et al., 2021 ). Indeed,the abundance of metabolic pathway genes involved in nutrient acquisi-tion (e.g., ABC transporters, secretion system, sulfur metabolism, fructoseand mannose metabolism) was greatest in the CF metagenome and dif-fered signi ﬁcantly from those in the OM and PV metagenomes. Withhigh production of extracellular enzymes for nutrient acquisition, micro-bial investment into cell growth decreases. The resource-acquisition lifehistory strategy is frequently linked to an increased competition betweencommunity members for nutrient resources ( Malik et al., 2020 ). Thus, theparticular enrichment of genes involved in antimicrobial resistance andbiosynthesis of enediyne antibiotics in the CF metagenome is anotherline of evidence for this microbial life history strategy under nutrient-limited conditions ( Fig. 3 ). Collectively, these ﬁndings may explain whythe CF treatment was previously observed to harbor the lowest microbialbiomass carbon and nitrogen ( Pan et al., 2020 ).Contrary to the CF soil, the OM soil was rich in labile carbon andother nutrients that were applied in each season, in addition to plantresidues. We therefore assumed that the OM microbiome had an r-selected life history strategy, i.e., a strategy de ﬁned by cellular reproduc-tion and high growth yield ( Malik et al., 2020 ). Indeed, the abundance ofgenes involved in cellular reproduction was greatest in the OMmetagenome and differed signi ﬁcantly from those in the CF and PVmetagenomes ( Fig. 3 ). This indicates that high growth yield under opti-mal resource conditions is a major functional trait of the soil microbesassociated with the OM treatment ( Malik et al., 2020 ). Concurrently,the OM metagenome contained a signi ﬁcantly lower abundance of gly-cosyl hydrolase genes involved in polysaccharide decomposition thanthe CF and PV metagenomes ( Fig. 4 ), suggesting that compared to theCF and PV microbiomes, the ability to produce extracellular enzymesis ecologically less important for the OM microbiome ( Wei et al.,2020 ). Thus, our results collectively corroborate that under nutrient-rich conditions, soil microbiomes invest in cell reproduction ratherthan resource acquisition. A characteristic of such nutrient-rich condi-tions is reduced environmental pressure to compete for resources,which agrees well with the fact that greatest bacterial and fungalalpha diversity was observed in the OM treatment ( Fig. 1 ).Resources acquistion and competition Celluar growthTotal SM (0.25-2mm) M (<0.25mm) LM (>2mm)CF  OM   PV    CF  OM   PV    CF  OM   PV    CF  OM   PV    ****Fig. 3. The genetic life history potential of the microbiomes associated with particular fertilizer treatments and aggregate size classes. The gene abunda nce of each KEGG level 3 categorywas z-scored transformed and is visualized in the format of a heatmap. The functional KEGG categories were grouped according to Malik et al. (2020) , being indicative of two distinct lifehistory strategies: “resource acquisition and competition ”(e.g., transport, nutrient metabolism) and “cellular growth ”(biosynthesis). The asterisks aside the life history strategies indicatethat these genetic traits were signi ﬁcantly enriched in either CF treatment ( “resource acquisition and competition ”) or OM treatment ( “cellular growth ”)(PFDR< 0.05). The abundance ofgenes af ﬁliated with either “resource acquisition ”or“cellular growth ”did not signi ﬁcantly differ under PV treatment to those in the CF and OM treatments. The key shows the z-scores ofthe relative abundances. CF: chemical fertilizer; OM: organic manure plus chemical fertilizer; PV: peat-vermiculite plus chemical fertilizer.X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 1477987The PV soil received a single treatment with peat-vermiculite in Oc-tober 2014, in addition to the seasonal input of plant residues. In con-trast to other treatments, the PV soil showed the highest soil fertilityand crop productivity ( Wu et al., 2021 ). Despite PV amendmentresulting in the highest SOC level, microbial communities thrivedunder labile carbon de ﬁciency as peat is well known to be recalcitrantagainst microbial decomposition ( Kirchman et al., 2004 ). Indeed, CFand PV treatments did not signi ﬁcantly differ in the accumulation of mi-crobial carbon and nitrogen ( Pan et al., 2020 ), indicating that peat is toorecalcitrant to be broken down ( Kirchman et al., 2004 ). The particularphysico-chemical properties of peat-vermiculite, however, lead to a de-crease in bulk density but increase in soil aeration ( Huat et al., 2011 ).The further consequence is an increased carbon accumulation acrossall soil aggregate size classes; in particular compared to CF treatment(Fig. S1). Among the three fertilizer regimes, the PV treatment presum-ably offered the most diverse microhabitats for colonization, includingK-selected oligotrophs (e.g., Acidobacteria ). However, the decrease inbulk density but increase in aeration altered, relative to the CF treat-ment, the community composition towards enrichment of r-selectedcopiotrophs (i.e., Actinobacteria ,Mortierellomycota ), thereby leading toam o r ee f ﬁcient decomposition of complex plant residues. Indeed,members of Actinobacteria have a high genetic potential to decomposerecalcitrant polymeric compounds ( Fierer et al., 2012 ;Lewin et al.,2016 ), which explains well the signi ﬁcant association of this phylumwith soil CSE under PV treatment ( Fig. 2 ). The positive effects of the de-crease in bulk density but increase in aeration even may have beengreater for fungi, but in particular for members of the order Mortieralles .These saprophytic fungi are common inhabitants of forest and agricul-tural soils and grow well in environments rich in nutrients such assimple sugars, but are also able to ef ﬁciently degrade hemicellulosesand chitin to get sugars for their growth. In particular, Mortierellomycotahave been shown to be involved in the early stages of organic residuedecomposition ( Koechli et al., 2019 ;Clocchiatti et al., 2020 ). Comparedto CF treatment, the Mortieralleles fungi were signi ﬁcantly increased inrelative abundance under both OM and PV treatments (Fig. S5), buttheir functional role may have differed between the two treatments.While the Mortieralleles fungi primarily utilized labile carbon underOM treatment, they may have been majorly involved in the hydrolysisof complex carbon under PV treatment. Indeed, fungi are well knownto act as biological binding agents that can drive the process of soilaggregate formation and stabilization ( Daynes et al., 2012 ;Duchicelaet al., 2013 ). Enriched by either the combination of labile andcomplex carbon (OM treatment) or the particular physico-chemicalproperties of peat-vermiculite, the biological traits of saprophyticMortierellomycota explain well why this fungal group was bothstrongest predictor for and positively associated with soil CSE underOM and PV treatments ( PFDR<0 . 0 5 )( Fig. 2 ).4.2. Linking microbial life history strategies to SOC storageMicrobial life history strategies are known to be highly correlatedwith SOC turnover ( Docherty and Gutknecht, 2019 ;Trivedi et al.,2017 ). Our taxonomic analysis corroborates a K-selected life style ofthe CF microbiome. Gemmatimonadetes ap h y l u md e ﬁn e db ys l o w -growing bacteria that thrive in various soils ( Docherty and Gutknecht,2019 ;Zhao et al., 2021 ), were signi ﬁcantly enriched in the CF treatmentin comparison to the OM and PV treatments, and their relative abun-dance was negatively correlated with both SOC and CSE ( Malik et al.,Cellulose Chitin Xylan Pectin HemicelluoseCF  OM  PV    CF  OM  PV    CF  OM  PV    CF  OM   PV    SM (0.25-2mm) M (<0.25mm) LM (>2mm) Total******Fig. 4. Heatmap showing the normalized abundances of CAZyme genes in the metagenomes obtained for the aggregate size classes (LM, SM and M) of each fertilizer treatment (CF, OM,and PV). CAZyme modules are classi ﬁed according to target carbohydrate: cellulose, xylan, pectin, hemicellulose, and chitin. The asterisks aside CAZyme modules indicate that CAZymegenes af ﬁliated with particular modules (cellulose, pectin, hemicellulose) were signi ﬁcantly enriched in the CF treatment relative to the OM treatment ( PFDR< 0.05). The abundance ofgenes af ﬁliated with particular CAZyme modules (cellulose, pectin, hemicellulose) did not signi ﬁcantly differ under PV treatment to those in the CF and OM treatments. CF: chemicalfertilizer; OM: organic manure plus chemical fertilizer; PV: peat-vermiculite plus chemical fertilizer.X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 14779882020 ;Zhao et al., 2021 ). These slow-growing or oligotrophic bacteriaplay an important role in SOC decomposition, because they primarily in-vest in the production of extracellular enzymes for the degradation ofcomplex carbon during periods of resource scarcity. Cytophagales(Bacteroidetes )a n d Bacillales (Firmicutes ) were particularly enriched inthe OM treatment and displayed a positive but non-signi ﬁcant associa-tion with SOC and CSE. These copiotrophic bacteria are typical soil in-habitants and respond fast to nutrient-rich conditions, but are alsoable to utilize proteins and lipids (microbial components) and to partic-ipate in degrading polymers such as cellulose. This further corroboratesanr-selected life style of the OM microbiome. However, as discussedabove, Actinobacteria andMortierellomycota were the taxonomic groupsmost characteristic for the PV treatment, with regard to both their highabundance and their signi ﬁcantly positive correlation with SOC and CSE.The contributions of distinct microbial life history strategies(oligotrophs vs copiotrophs) to SOC storage/decomposition were fur-ther evidenced by reconstructed MAGs. Members of the Acidobacteriaare known to be specialists in degrading recalcitrant carbon ( Trivediet al., 2016 ), while Gemmatimonadetes are aerobic heterotrophs capableof utilizing multiple substrates (e.g., polypeptone, acetate) ( Zhang et al.,2003 ;Baker et al., 2015 ). MAGs af ﬁliated with the Thermoanaerobaculia(Acidobacteria ) (bin_OL2.19) and Gemmatimonadetes (bin_OL2.37) inthe CF treatment showed a high genetic potential for the productionof carbohydrate-active enzymes, which are indicative of oligotrophicpopulations that in our study, mainly contributed to SOC decompositionin the CF treatment. High abundance of Actinobacteria -afﬁliated MAGswas observed in the OM and PV treatments, in good agreement withthe positive correlation of the Actinobacteria with SOC and CSE. Thestrong correlation with SOC and soil CSE was observed in particularfor MAGs af ﬁliated with two speci ﬁc subgroups of the Actinobacteria ,namely Solirubrobacterales and Jiangellales (bin_GS2.5 andbin_OL2.27). In previous research, Actinobacteria with copiotrophic lifehistory strategy were characterized by less extracellular enzyme pro-duction but high biomass yield, thus contributing to SOC storage bynecromasss accumulation ( Liang et al., 2017 ). Moreover, the assimila-tion of monomeric substrates into microbial residues would increaseSOC stabilization ( Malik et al., 2020 ). Strong accumulation of microbialnecromass may thus best explain the increase in soil CSE under OMtreatment, while the PV properties led to a decrease in bulk densitybut increase in soil aeration and carbon accumulation across all aggre-gate size classes (Fig. S1), thereby resulting in a more ef ﬁcient decom-position of complex carbon by Actinobacteria , and in particular byfungi ( Mortierellomycota ), than under CF treatment. Notably,Acidobacteria were generally classi ﬁed as oligotrophs, whileBacteroidetes ,Actinobacteria ,Alphaproteobacteria ,a n d Betaproteo-bacteria were de ﬁned as copiotrophic organisms in previous research(Fierer et al., 2007 ;Fierer et al., 2012 ;Trivedi et al., 2017 ). This doesnot imply that every member of these phyla can be distinctly classi ﬁedAcidobacteria(3)Krumholzibacteria(1)Proteobacteria(8)Chloroflex(2)Actinobacteriota(5)Gemmatimonadetes(1)Bins postively correlated with CSEBins negatively correlated with CSEContamination%Completeness%(a) (b)***********Fig. 5. Maximum-likelihood tree of 20 high-quality MAGs harboring CAZyme genes (a) and their relative abundances across the fertilizer treatments (b). The tree was constructed by using theFast tree software with the ‘WAG 1000 ’s parameters and is based on a concatenated alig nment of 120 marker genes from GTDB-Tk. The MAGs obtained in this study are marked by red dots.Further details about the MAGs are given in Fig. S7 and Table S4. Colors on lea f labels indicate the microbial phylum. The completeness of each MAG is dis played by black-red colored bars. Theasterisks indicate that the high-quality MAGs were either positively (red) or negatively (black) correlated with soil CSE ( PFDR< 0.05). The relative abundance of each MAG across the fertilizertreatments was z-scored transformed and is displayed in the format of a heatmap (CF, OM, and PV). The asterisks indicate that the given MAGs were signi ﬁcantly enriched in a particular fertilizertreatment relative to the other two treatments ( PFDR< 0.05).X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 1477989into copiotrophic or oligotrophic microorganisms ( Fierer et al., 2007 ).However, both relative abundance and genetic potential of these taxarespond in a predictable manner to organic materials amendments,and most of their members can be broadly af ﬁliated with a copiotrophicor oligotrophic life style. Taken together, we identi ﬁed mechanisms un-derlying the increase in soil CSE as a result of particular organic materialamendments. These led to trade-offs in microbial functional traits de-ﬁned by two distinct microbial life history strategies that in our study,shaped SOC decomposition potential and storage ef ﬁciency.5. ConclusionsOur results showed that sole CF application can stimulate microbialdecomposition of SOC, while OM amendment increased microbial di-versity but decreased potential for decomposition of polymeric carbon.These phenomena are closely associated with shifts in microbial life his-tory strategies and, in consequence, functional genetic potential. Slow-growing oligotrophs, such as Gemmatimonadetes andAcidobacteria ,a r efavored by CF amendment, while fast-growing copiotrophs, such asCytophagales and Bacillales , proliferate more in response to OM treat-ment. However, we identi ﬁed an abundant mix of both oligotrophs(e.g., Acidobacteria ) and copiotrophs (e.g., Actinobacteria ,Mortierellomycota ) under PV treatment. The particular trade-offs in ge-netic traits between “resource acquisition ”and “cellular growth ”arealso documented by the fact that under PV treatment, the abundanceof genes indicative of either life history strategies showed no signi ﬁcantdifference to their abundance in either CF or OM treatment, therebybeing indicative of a “mixed life history strategy ”. In consequence,strong accumulation of microbial necromass may be the major explana-tion for the increase in soil CSE under OM treatment, while the responseof the microbial community to the physico-chemical properties of peat-vermiculite is the major explanation for the increase in soil CSE underPV treatment. Taken together, our study illustrates how metabolictrade-offs between life history traits affect soil carbon dynamics, withmajor implications for sustainable organic carbon storage management.CRediT authorship contribution statementXingjie Wu: Investigation, Methodology, Software, Data curation,Formal analysis, Writing –original draft. Pengfei Liu: Formal analysis,Methodology, Writing –review & editing. Carl-Eric Wegner: Datacuration, Methodology, Formal analysis. Yu Luo: Writing –review &editing. Ke-Qing Xiao: Methodology, Writing –review & editing.Zhenling Cui: Conceptualization, Writing –review & editing. FusuoZhang: Conceptualization, Writing –review & editing. Werner Liesack:Methodology, Writing –review & editing. Jingjing Peng: Conceptuali-zation, Methodology, Software, Data curation, Formal analysis, Writing –review & editing, Supervision.Declaration of competing interestThe authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancialinterests or personal relationships that could have appeared to in ﬂu-ence the work reported in this paper.AcknowledgementThis study was ﬁnancially supported by National Natural ScienceFoundation of China (41977038), China Agricultural University(2020TC050 & 2020TC144), and Beijing Advanced Discipline.Appendix A. Supplementary dataSupplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2021.147798 .ReferencesBach, E.M., Hofmockel, K.S., 2014. Soil aggregate isolation method affects measures ofintra-aggregate extracellular enzyme activity. Soil Biol. Biochem. 69, 54 –62.Baker, B.J., Lazar, C.S., Teske, A.P., Dick, G.J., 2015. Genomic resolution of linkages in car-bon, nitrogen, and sulfur cycling among widespread estuary sediment bacteria.Microbiome 3.Bastida, F., García, C., Fierer, N., Eldridge, D.J., Bowker, M.A., Abades, S., Alfaro, F.D., AsefawBerhe, A., Cutler, N.A., Gallardo, A., García-Velázquez, L., Hart, S.C., Hayes, P.E.,Hernández, T., Hseu, Z., Jehmlich, N., Kirchmair, M., Lambers, H., Neuhauser, S.,Peña-Ramírez, V.M., Pérez, C.A., Reed, S.C., Santos, F., Siebe, C., Sullivan, B.W.,Trivedi, P., Vera, A., Williams, M.A., Luis Moreno, J., Delgado-Baquerizo, M., 2019.Global ecological predictors of the soil priming effect. Nat. Commun. 10.Bellemain, E., Carlsen, T., Brochmann, C., Coissac, E., Taberlet, P., Kauserud, H., 2010. ITS asan environmental DNA barcode for fungi: an in silico approach reveals potential PCRbiases. BMC Microbiol. 10.Bolger, A.M., Lohse, M., Usadel, B., 2014. Trimmomatic: a ﬂexible trimmer for Illumina se-quence data. Bioinformatics 30, 2114 –2120.Chaumeil, P.A., Mussig, A.J., Hugenholtz, P., Parks, D.H., 2019. GTDB-Tk: a toolkit to classifygenomes with the genome taxonomy database. Bioinformatics 36, 1925 –1927.Chen, X.P., Cui, Z.L., Vitousek, P.M., Cassman, K.G., Matson, P.A., Bai, J.S., Meng, Q.F., Hou, P.,Yue, S.C., Roemheld, V., Zhang, F.S., 2011. Integrated soil-crop system managementfor food security. PNAS 108, 6399 –6404.Chen, Q.L., Ding, J., Zhu, D., Hu, H.W., Delgado-Baquerizo, M., Ma, Y.B., He, J.Z., Zhu, Y.G.,2020. Rare microbial taxa as the major drivers of ecosystem multifunctionality inlong-term fertilized soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 141.Clocchiatti, A., Hannula, S.E., van den Berg, M., Korthals, G., de Boer, W., 2020. The hiddenpotential of saprotrophic fungi in arable soil: patterns of short-term stimulation byorganic amendments. Appl. Soil Ecol. 147.Dang, Q., Wang, Y., Xiong, S., Yu, H., Zhao, X., Tan, W., Cui, D., Xi, B., 2021. Untangling theresponse of fungal community structure, composition and function in soil aggregatefractions to food waste compost addition. Sci. Total Environ. 769, 145248.Daynes, C.N., Zhang, N., Saleeba, J.A., McGee, P.A., 2012. Soil aggregates formed in vitro bysaprotrophic Trichocomaceae have transient water-stability. Soil Biol. Biochem. 48,151 –161.Dedysh, S.N., Lawson, P., 2020. Thermoanaerobaculia. Bergey ’sM a n u a lo fS y s t e m a t i c so fArchaea and Bacteria. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118960608.cbm00082 Online:.Ding, J., Jiang, X., Guan, D., Zhao, B., Ma, M., Zhou, B., Cao, F., Yang, X., Li, L., Li, J., 2017. In-ﬂuence of inorganic fertilizer and organic manure application on fungal communitiesin a long-term ﬁeld experiment of Chinese Mollisols. Appl. Soil Ecol. 111, 114 –122.Docherty, K.M., Gutknecht, J.L.M., 2019. Soil microbial restoration strategies for promotingclimate-ready prairie ecosystems. Ecol. Appl. 29.Dodor, D.E., Amanor, Y.J., Attor, F.T., Adjadeh, T.A., Neina, D., Miyittah, M., 2018. Co-application of biochar and cattle manure counteract positive priming of carbon min-eralization in a sandy soil. Environ. Syst. Res. 7, 1 –9.Duchicela, J., Sullivan, T.S., Bontti, E., Bever, J.D., 2013. Soil aggregate stability increase isstrongly related to fungal community succession along an abandoned agriculturalﬁeld chronosequence in the Bolivian Altiplano. J. Appl. Ecol. 50.Edgar, R.C., 2011. Search and clustering orders of magnitude faster than BLAST. Bioinfor-matics 26, 2460 –2461.Edgar, R.C., 2013. UPARSE: highly accurate OTU sequences from microbial amplicon reads.Nat. Methods 10, 996 –998.Feng, J., Zhu, B., 2021. Global patterns and associated drivers of priming effect in responseto nutrient addition. Soil Biol. Biochem. 153, 108118.Ferreira, J.A., 2007. The Benjamini-Hochberg method in the case of discrete test statistics.Int. J. Biostat. 3, 11.Fierer, N., Bradford, M.A., Jackson, R.B., 2007. Toward an ecological classi ﬁcation of soilbacteria. Ecology 88 (6), 1354 –1364. https://doi.org/10.2307/27651243 .Fierer, N., Lauber, C.L., Ramirez, K.S., Zaneveld, J., Bradford, M.A., Knight, R., 2012. Compar-ative metagenomic, phylogenetic and physiological analyses of soil microbial com-munities across nitrogen gradients. ISME J. 6, 1007 –1017.Garcia-Franco, N., Martínez-Mena, M., Goberna, M., Albaladejo, J., 2015. Changes in soilaggregation and microbial community structure control carbon sequestration afterafforestation of semiarid shrublands. Soil Biol. Biochem. 87, 110 –121.Gómez-Rubio, V., 2017. ggplot2-elegant graphics for data analysis. J. Stat. Softw. 77, 1 –3.Hanway, J.J., Heidel, H., 1952. Soil analysis methods as used in Iowa state college soil test-ing laboratory. Iowa Agric. 57, 1 –31.Ho, A., Di Lonardo, D.P., Bodelier, P.L.E., 2017. Revisiting life strategy concepts in environ-mental microbial ecology. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 93.Huat, B.B., Kazemian, S., Prasad, A., Barghchi, M., 2011. State of an art review of peat: gen-eral perspective. Int. J. Phys. Sci. 6, 1988 –1996.IUSS Working Group WRB, 2015. World Reference Base for Soil Resources. InternationalSoil Classi ﬁﬁcation System for Naming Soils and Creating Legends for Soil Maps, Up-date 2015. World Soil Resources Report No. 106. FAO, Rome.Kallenbach, C.M., Frey, S.D., Grandy, A.S., 2016. Direct evidence for microbial-derived soilorganic matter formation and its ecophysiological controls. Nat. Commun. 9.Kanehisa, M., Goto, S., 2000. KEGG: Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes. NucleicAcids Res. 28, 27 –30.Kang, D.D., Froula, J., Egan, R., Wang, Z., 2015. MetaBAT, an ef ﬁcient tool for accuratelyreconstructing single genomes from complex microbial communities. PeerJ. 3.Kirchman, D.L., Dittel, A.I., Findlay, S.E.G., Fischer, D., 2004. Changes in bacterial activityand community structure in response to dissolved organic matter in the HudsonRiver, New York. Aquat. Microbiol. Ecol. 35, 243 –257.X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 14779810Koechli, C., Campbell, A.N., Pepe-Ranney, C., Buckley, D.H., 2019. Assessing fungal contri-butions to cellulose degradation in soil by using high-throughput stable isotope prob-ing. Soil Biol. Biochem. 130, 150 –158.Kundu, S., Bhattacharyya, R., Prakash, V., Ghosh, B.N., Gupta, H.S., 2007. Carbon sequestra-tion and relationship between carbon addition and storage under rainfed soybean-wheat rotation in a sandy loam soil of the Indian Himalayas. Soil Tillage Res. 92,87–95.Lal, R., 2004. Soil carbon sequestration impacts on global climate change and food secu-rity. Science 304, 1623 –1627.Leff, J.W., Jones, S.E., Prober, S.M., Barberán, A., Borer, E.T., Firn, J.L., Harpole, W.S., Hobbie,S.E., Hofmockel, K.S., Knops, J.M.H., McCulley, R.L., La Pierre, K., Risch, A.C., Seabloom,E.W., Schütz, M., Steenbock, C., Stevens, C.J., Fierer, N., 2015. Consistent responses ofsoil microbial communities to elevated nutrient inputs in grasslands across theglobe. PNAS 112, 10967 –10972.Lewin, G.R., Carlos, C., Chevrette, M.G., Horn, H.A., McDonald, B.R., Stankey, R.J., Fox, B.G.,Currie, C.R., 2016. Evolution and ecology of Actinobacteria and their bioenergy appli-cations. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 70, 235 –254.Li, D., Liu, C.M., Luo, R., Sadakane, K., Lam, T.W., 2015. MEGAHIT: an ultrafast single nodesolution for large and complex metagenomics assembly via succinct de Bruijn graph.Bioinformatics 31, 10 –15.Liang, C., Schimel, J.P., Jastrow, J.D., 2017. The importance of anabolism in microbial con-trol over soil carbon storage. Nat. Microbiol. 2.Lin, Y., Ye, G., Kuzyakov, Y., Liu, D., Fan, J., Ding, W., 2019. Long-term manure applicationincreases soil organic matter and aggregation, and alters microbial community struc-ture and keystone taxa. Soil Biol. Biochem. 134, 187 –196.Lipson, D.A., 2015. The complex relationship between microbial growth rate and yieldand its implications for ecosystem processes. Front. Microbiol. 6.Liu, S., Wang, J., Pu, S., Blagodatskaya, E., Kuzyakov, Y., Razavi, B.S., 2020. Impact of manureon soil biochemical properties: a global synthesis. Sci. Total Environ. 745, 141003.Luo, Y., Zang, H., Yu, Z., Chen, Z., Gunina, A., Kuzyakov, Y., Xu, J., Zhang, K., Brookes, P.C.,2017. Priming effects in biochar enriched soils using a three-source-partitioning ap-proach: C-14 labelling and C-13 natural abundance. Soil Biol. Biochem. 106, 28 –35.Magoc, T., Salzberg, S.L., 2011. FLASH: fast length adjustment of short reads to improvegenome assemblies. Bioinformatics 27, 2957 –2963.Malik, A.A., Puissant, J., Goodall, T., Allison, S.D., Grif ﬁths, R.I., 2019. Soil microbial commu-nities with greater investment in resource acquisition have lower growth yield. SoilBiol. Biochem. 132, 36 –39.Malik, A.A., Martiny, J.B.H., Brodie, E.L., Martiny, A.C., Treseder, K.K., Allison, S.D., 2020. De-ﬁning trait-based microbial strategies with consequences for soil carbon cyclingunder climate change. ISME J. 14, 1 –9.Melillo, J.M., Frey, S.D., DeAngelis, K.M., Werner, W.J., Bernard, M.J., Bowles, F.P., Pold, G.,Knorr, M.A., Grandy, A.S., 2017. Long-term pattern and magnitude of soil carbon feed-back to the climate system in a warming world. Science 358, 101 –105.Nilsson, R.H., Larsson, K., Taylor, A.F.S., Bengtsson-Palme, J., Jeppesen, T.S., Schigel, D.,Kennedy, P., Picard, K., Glöckner, F.O., Tedersoo, L., Saar, I., Kõljalg, U., Abarenkov, K.,2019. The UNITE database for molecular identi ﬁcation of fungi: handling dark taxaand parallel taxonomic classi ﬁcations. Nucleic Acids Res. 47, 259 –264.Novara, A., Poma, I., Sarno, M., Venezia, G., Gristina, L., 2015. Long-term durum wheat-based cropping systems result in the rapid saturation of soil carbon in the mediterra-nean semi-arid environment. Land Degrad. Dev. 27, 612 –619.O k s a n e n ,J . ,K i n d t ,R . ,L e g e n d r e ,P . ,O’Hara, B., Stevens, M.H.H., Oksanen, M.J., Suggests, M.,2007. The Vegan Package Version 2.5-2 (Community Ecol. package).Olsen, S.R., Cole, C.V., Watanabe, F.S., Dean, L.A., 1954. Estimation of Available Phosphorusin Soils by Extraction with Sodium Bicarbonate. United State Department Agriculture(Circular).Pan, J., Shang, Y., Zhang, W.J., Chen, X., Cui, Z., 2020. Improving soil quality for higher grainyields in Chinese wheat and maize production. Land Degrad. Dev. 31, 1125 –1137.Parks, D.H., Imelfort, M., Skennerton, C.T., Hugenholtz, P., Tyson, G.W., 2015. CheckM:assessing the quality of microbial genomes recovered from isolates, single cells, andmetagenomes. Genome Res. 25, 1043 –1055.Peng, J., Wegner, C.-E., Bei, Q., Liu, P., Liesack, W., 2018. Metatranscriptomics reveals a dif-ferential temperature effect on the structural and functional organization of the an-aerobic food web in rice ﬁeld soil. Microbiome 6.Pianka, E.R., 1970. R-selection and K-selection. Am. Nat. 104, 592 –597.Quast, C., Pruesse, E., Yilmaz, P., Gerken, J., Schweer, T., Yarza, P., Peplies, J., Gloeckner, F.O.,2013. The SILVA ribosomal RNA gene database project: improved data processing andweb-based tools. Nucleic Acids Res. 41, 590 –596.Ramirez, K.S., Lauber, C.L., Knight, R., Bradford, M.A., Fierer, N., 2010. Consistent effects ofnitrogen fertilization on soil bacterial communities in contrasting systems. Ecology.91, 3463 –3470.Ramirez, K.S., Craine, J.M., Fierer, N., 2012. Consistent effects of nitrogen amendments onsoil microbial communities and processes across biomes. Glob. Chang. Biol. 18,1918 –1927.R h o ,M . ,T a n g ,H . ,Y e ,Y . ,2 0 1 0 . FragGeneScan: predicting genes in short and error-pronereads. Nucleic Acids Res. 38.Shao, P., Lynch, L., Xie, H., Bao, X., Liang, C., 2021. Tradeoffs among microbial life historystrategies in ﬂuence the fate of microbial residues in subtropical forest soils. SoilBiol. Biochem. 153, 108112.Six, J., Frey, S.D., Thiet, R.K., Batten, K.M., 2006. Bacterial and fungal contributions to car-bon sequestration in agroecosystems. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 70, 555 –569.Tamaki, H., Wright, C.L., Li, X., Lin, Q., Hwang, C., Wang, S., Thimmapuram, J., Kamagata, Y.,Liu, W.T., 2011. Analysis of 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing options on the Roche/454next-generation titanium sequencing platform. PLoS One 6.Trivedi, P., Rochester, I.J., Trivedi, C., Van Nostrand, J.D., Zhou, J., Karunaratne, S., Anderson,I.C., Singh, B.K., 2015. Soil aggregate size mediates the impacts of cropping regimes onsoil carbon and microbial communities. Soil Biol. Biochem. 91, 169 –181.Trivedi, P., Delgado-Baquerizo, M., Trivedi, C., Hu, H., Anderson, I.C., Jeffries, T.C., Zhou, J.,Singh, B.K., 2016. Microbial regulation of the soil carbon cycle: evidence from gene-enzyme relationships. ISME J. 10, 2593 –2604.Trivedi, P., Delgado-Baquerizo, M., Jeffries, T.C., Trivedi, C., Anderson, I.C., Lai, K., McNee,M., Flower, K., Singh, B.P., Minkey, D., Singh, B.K., 2017. Soil aggregation and associ-ated microbial communities modify the impact of agricultural management on car-bon content. Environ. Microbiol. 19, 3070 –3086.Wan, D., Ma, M., Peng, N., Luo, X., Chen, W., Cai, P., Wu, L., Pan, H., Chen, J., Yu, G., Huang,Q., 2021. Effects of long-term fertilization on calcium-associated soil organic carbon:implications for C sequestration in agricultural soils. Sci. Total Environ. 772, 145037.Wang, Q., Garrity, G.M., Tiedje, J.M., Cole, J.R., 2007. Naive Bayesian classi ﬁer for rapid as-signment of rRNA sequences into the new bacterial taxonomy. Appl. Environ. Microb.73, 5261 –5267.W e i ,X . ,Z h u ,Z . ,L i u ,Y . ,L u o ,Y . ,D e n g ,Y . ,X u ,X . ,L i u ,S . ,R i c h t e r ,A . ,S h i b i s t o v a ,O . ,Guggenberger, G., Wu, J., Ge, T., 2020. C:N:P stoichiometry regulates soil organic car-bon mineralization and concomitant shifts in microbial community composition inpaddy soil. Biol. Fertil. Soils 56, 1093 –1107.Weiss, S., Xu, Z.Z., Peddada, S., Amir, A., Bittinger, K., Gonzalez, A., Lozupone, C., Zaneveld,J.R., Vázquez-Baeza, Y., Birmingham, A., Hyde, E.R., Knight, R., 2017. Normalizationand microbial differential abundance strategies depend upon data characteristics.Microbiome 5.Wiesmeier, M., Urbanski, L., Hobley, E., Lang, B., von Luetzow, M., Marin-Spiotta, E., vanWesemael, B., Rabot, E., Liess, M., Garcia-Franco, N., Wollschlaeger, U., Vogel, H.-J.,Koegel-Knabner, I., 2019. Soil organic carbon storage as a key function of soils - a re-view of drivers and indicators at various scales. Geoderma 333, 149 –162.Wilhelm, R.C., Singh, R., Eltis, L.D., Mohn, W.W., 2019. Bacterial contributions todeligni ﬁcation and lignocellulose degradation in forest soils with metagenomic andquantitative stable isotope probing. ISME J. 13, 413 –429.Wilpiszeski, R.L., Aufrecht, J.A., Retterer, S.T., Sullivan, M.B., Graham, D.E., Pierce, E.M.,Zablocki, O.D., Palumbo, A.V., Elias, D.A., 2019. Soil aggregate microbial communities:towards understanding microbiome interactions at biologically relevant scales. Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 85.Wu, X., Liu, Y., Shang, Y., Liu, D., Liesack, W., Cui, Z., Peng, J., Zhang, F., 2021. Peat-vermiculite alters microbiota composition towards increased soil fertility and cropproductivity. Plant Soil 1 –14.Xia, L., Lam, S.K., Wolf, B., Kiese, R., Chen, D., Butterbach-Bahl, K., 2018. Trade-offs betweensoil carbon sequestration and reactive nitrogen losses under straw return in globalagroecosystems. Glob. Chang. Biol. 24, 5919 –5932.Yan, X., Zhou, H., Zhu, Q.H., Wang, X.F., Zhang, Y.Z., Yu, X.C., Peng, X., 2013. Carbon seques-tration ef ﬁciency in paddy soil and upland soil under long-term fertilization in south-ern China. Soil Till. Res. 130, 42 –51.Yin, Y., Mao, X., Yang, J., Chen, X., Mao, F., Xu, Y., 2012. dbCAN: a web resource for auto-mated carbohydrate-active enzyme annotation. Nucleic Acids Res. 40, 445 –451.Zhalnina, K., Louie, K.B., Hao, Z., Mansoori, N., da Rocha, U.N., Shi, S., Cho, H., Karaoz, U.,Loque, D., Bowen, B.P., Firestone, M.K., Northen, T.R., Brodie, E.L., 2018. Dynamicroot exudate chemistry and microbial substrate preferences drive patterns in rhizo-sphere microbial community assembly. Nat. Microbiol. 3, 470 –480.Zhang, H., Sekiguchi, Y., Hanada, S., Hugenholtz, P., Kim, H., Kamagata, Y., Nakamura, K.,2003. Gemmatimonas aurantiaca gen. nov., sp nov., a gram-negative, aerobic,polyphosphate-accumulating micro-organism, the ﬁrst cultured representative ofthe new bacterial phylum Gemmatimonadetes phyl. nov. Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol.53, 1155 –1163.Zhang, H., Yohe, T., Huang, L., Entwistle, S., Wu, P., Yang, Z., Busk, P.K., Xu, Y., Yin, Y., 2018.dbCAN2: a meta server for automated carbohydrate-active enzyme annotation.Nucleic Acids Res. 46, 95 –101.Zhao, M., Zhao, J., Yuan, J., Hale, L., Wen, T., Huang, Q., Vivanco, J.M., Zhou, J., Kowalchuk,G.A., Shen, Q., 2021. Root exudates drive soil-microbe-nutrient feedbacks in responseto plant growth. Plant Cell Environ. 44, 613 –628.Zhong, W., Gu, T., Wang, W., Zhang, B., Lin, X., Huang, Q., Shen, W., 2010. The effects ofmineral fertilizer and organic manure on soil microbial community and diversity.Plant Soil 326, 511 –522.Zhou, P., Sheng, H., Li, Y., Tong, C., Ge, T., Wu, J., 2016. Lower C sequestration and N useefﬁciency by straw incorporation than manure amendment on paddy soils. Agric.Ecosyst. Environ. 125, 54 –63.X. Wu, P. Liu, C.-E. Wegner et al. Science of the Total Environment 788 (2021) 14779811