Citation: Zhao, L.; Li, X.; Li, X.; Ai, C.Dynamic Changes and RegionalDifferences of Net CarbonSequestration of Food Crops in theYangtze River Economic Belt ofChina. Int. J. Environ. Res. PublicHealth 2022 ,19, 13229. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph192013229Academic Editor: Linyu XuReceived: 16 August 2022Accepted: 28 September 2022Published: 14 October 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).International  Journal  of Environmental Researchand Public HealthArticleDynamic Changes and Regional Differences of Net CarbonSequestration of Food Crops in the Yangtze River Economic Beltof ChinaLiping Zhao1,2, Xincheng Li3, Xiangmei Li4,5,* and Chenyang Ai61School of Economics, South-Central University for Nationalities, Wuhan 430074, China2Hubei Institute of Building a Well Off Society in an All Round Way, Central South University for Nationalities,Wuhan 430074, China3China Power Engineering Consulting Group, Central Southern Electric Power Design Institute Co.,Wuhan 430071, China4Cooperative Innovation Center for Emissions Trading System Co-Constructed by the Province and Ministry,Wuhan 430205, China5School of Low Carbon Economy, Hubei University of Economics, Wuhan 430205, China6College of Business Administration, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, Wuhan 430073, China*Correspondence: xmli2014@hbue.edu.cn; Tel.: +86-186-0711-4915Abstract: The carbon sequestration of food crops is of great signiﬁcance to slow down agriculturalgreenhouse gas emissions in agricultural production and management. This paper analyzes thedynamic change and regional differences of net carbon sequestration of food crops from temporal andspatial perspectives for the case study area of the Yangtze River economic belt (YREB) in China. Weuse the calculation formula of carbon sequestration and carbon emission to calculate the net carbonsequestration in the Yangtze River economic belt. On this basis, we analyze the dynamic trend andregional differences of net carbon sequestration in the Yangtze River economic belt. Furthermore, weuse the Gini coefﬁcient to measure the quantitative gap of net carbon sequestration of grain cropsin different regions of the Yangtze River economic belt. The results show that: (1) from 2000–2018,the net carbon sequestration of food crops keeps rising within the studied area, while the carbonemission shows a ﬂuctuating downward trend; (2) remarkable regional differences in the net carbonsequestration of food crops have occurred, and most provinces (cities) show an upward trend forthe studied area; (3) the unequitable distribution of net carbon sequestration of food crops is clearlydisplayed in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the studied area. Moreover, the most unevenplace is located on the lower reaches, and the least uneven place is in the upper reaches. Theseﬁndings are important points of reference for reducing the carbon emissions of the agriculturalindustry in the Yangtze River economic belt of China and in China more generally.Keywords: Yangtze River economic belt (YREB); grain-planting industry; net carbon sequestration;carbon emission; Gini coefﬁcient1. IntroductionNowadays, food security and greenhouse gas emissions are two important issues inagricultural production all over the world [ 1–3]. It is well known that there are two waysto reduce greenhouse gas emissions, i.e., reducing the absolute amount of carbon emissionsfrom the source and increasing carbon sequestration. With regard to food security, scholarspay more attention to the economic value of food crops [ 4,5] but often ignore the ecologicalvalue of food crops [ 6–8]. Food crops can absorb carbon dioxide, regulate the climate, andreturn farmland soil and straw to the ﬁeld, which can also ﬁx carbon. Therefore, foodcrops have an important carbon sequestration function. The carbon sequestration in grainproduction mainly refers to the carbon absorption in the process of grain growth, whichis caused by photosynthesis, while the carbon emission in grain production mainly refersInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph192013229 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijerphInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 2 of 16to the emission of greenhouse gases such as CO 2, CH 4, and N 2O on farmlands, which iscaused by the input of agricultural materials and the growth of grain crops. The net carbonsequestration in food crops refers to the difference between carbon sequestration and carbonemission. According to relevant scholars [ 9,10], there are a lot of carbon sequestrationsin crop biomass, which can not only increase the organic carbon content of agriculturalsoil, improve the soil fertility, and increase the grain yield, but they also can reduce theagricultural greenhouse gas emissions and gradually form a valuable ecosystem.Compared with other sectors, the food production sector is a special sector with dualattributes of carbon source and carbon sequestration. On the one hand, a large number ofgreenhouse gases are produced in the process of food production, related to the applicationof petrochemical production such as pesticides and fertilizers. At present, among thecarbon dioxide emissions from global human activities, the total carbon dioxide emissionsfrom agricultural production and land-use change account for 24% [ 11]. In 2017, Chinaaccounted for about 29.01% of the total agricultural carbon emissions in Asia and about12.54% of the total agricultural carbon emissions in the world [ 12]. On the other hand, theprocess of crop production can also produce carbon sequestration, offsetting part of thecarbon emissions produced from food production itself. That is to say, crops can absorb alarge amount of carbon dioxide through photosynthesis during the growth process, whichplays a role in purifying the air to a certain extent. As an important agricultural base,China has important contribution to carbon sequestration for food crops [ 13,14]. Especially,at the general debate of the 75th UN General Assembly, China announced that it wouldstrive to reach the peak of carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutralityby 2060 [ 15]. Therefore, the study on China’s grain net carbon sequestration is of greatsigniﬁcance for achieving the carbon peak and carbon neutrality commitment of the ParisAgreement [16].Food crops’ carbon sequestration is an important part of agricultural carbon seques-tration, and it is very meaningful to study it. At present, the research on food crops’ carbonsequestration is relatively few, and it is mainly focusing on agricultural production. Agri-cultural carbon sequestration mainly focuses on the following four aspects. Firstly, manyscholars have launched the quantitative measurement of agricultural carbon sequestra-tions. Vleeshouwers et al. [ 17] constructed a model including climate, agricultural soil,and crops to measure carbon sequestrations in European agricultural soils and found thatdue to the interaction between crops, soil, and climate, there are great regional differencesin the effectiveness of agricultural emission reduction measures and substantial differ-ences in the spatial pattern between carbon sequestrations caused by different measures.Alamdarlo [ 18] estimated carbon sequestrations in the agricultural sector in the Iranianprovinces based on Kuznets and space econometric theory. Dhananjay et al. [ 19] predictedagricultural carbon emissions in Saskatchewan, Canada, by improving the process-baseddenitriﬁcation decomposition (DNDC) models and concluded that prudent management ofagricultural irrigation and fertilizers has a signiﬁcant impact on enhancing the provincialagricultural carbon sequestration potential. Secondly, the inﬂuencing factors of agriculturalcarbon sequestrations receive much attention, which includes the differences in agriculturalsystems [ 20], organic fertilizer inputs and conservation farming [ 21], land-use change [ 22],and consumption of agricultural material energy such as straw combustion, feces man-agement, etc. [ 23,24]. Thirdly, there is research on the agricultural carbon sequestrationtrading and compensation mechanism. Existing scholars mainly pay attention to ecologicalcompensation issues, compensation principles, compensation methods and standards foragricultural carbon sequestration [ 25], monitoring, report, and veriﬁcation (MRV) systemsof forest carbon sequestration trading and related systems and policies [ 26], comparison ofsimilarities and differences in carbon trading across countries [ 27,28], and so on. Fourthly, itis about the development prospects of agricultural carbon sequestrations. Hoffert et al. [ 29]consider that changing traditional farming patterns can contribute to reducing agriculturalemissions and increasing remittances, especially by implementing conservation farmingmethods. Ugur et al. [ 30] used the Granger causal test to explore the relationships betweenInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 3 of 16economic growth, agricultural carbon emissions, and energy consumption in Turkey andfound that Turkey can promote steady economic growth by effectively reducing agriculturalcarbon emissions.A few scholars have studied food crops’ carbon sequestration. She et al. [ 31] evaluatedthe carbon inputs and outputs of crop production systems in six typical agricultural regionsin China. The results showed that the carbon sequestration of the same crop in differentregions was signiﬁcantly different, as well as different crops in the same region. Amongthe three major crops in China, the total annual net carbon sink of rice was the highest.Kang et al. [ 32] analyzed the impact of grain production on ecological carbon sink in China.Research shows that grain production helps to increase ecological carbon sink. Comparedwith northeast and western regions, the carbon sink effect of grain production in easternand central regions is greater.In summary, scholars have carried out a lot of research on measuring agriculturalcarbon sequestration, inﬂuencing factors of carbon sequestration, the carbon sequestrationtrading and compensation mechanism, carbon sequestration development prospects, etc.However, from the perspective of research object, the existing research mainly takesforest carbon sequestration as the research object, and there is less research taking foodcrops as the research object; from the perspective of research content, the research aboutcarbon sequestration rarely considers the impact of carbon emission. Therefore, based onthe calculation of the carbon sequestration and carbon emission of grain crops, taking graincrops as the research object, the net carbon sink as the research content, and the YangtzeRiver economic belt (YREB) as a case study area, this paper analyzes the dynamic changesand regional differences of net carbon sequestration of grain crops in different regions ofChina’s Yangtze River economic belt.This paper has three speciﬁc objectives to obtain: (1) to estimate the net carbonsequestration of grain crops from two aspects, i.e., carbon sources and carbon sequestrations;(2) to analyze the dynamic trend and regional differences of net carbon sequestration; (3) tomeasure the quantitative gap of net carbon sequestration of grain crops in different regionsby using the Gini coefﬁcient.2. Materials and Methods2.1. Site DescriptionThe Yangtze River economic belt (YREB) lies between 20–35N and 90–122E,covering the three major regions of east, middle, and west in China, which consist of elevenprovinces (cities), including Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan,Chongqing, Sichuan, Yunnan, Guizhou, etc. (Figure 1). Its area is about 2,052,300 km2,accounting for 21.4% of total area of China. Moreover, its population and gross productionvalue all surpass 40% of that of China. The YREB can be divided into upper reaches, middlereaches, and lower reaches. The upper reaches include Chongqing, Sichuan, Guizhou, andYunnan, the middle reaches include Jiangxi, Hubei, and Hunan, and the lower reachesinclude Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui. In November 2018, Chinese governmentfully exerted the location advantage of the YREB, guided by ecological priority and greendevelopment, to promote the coordinated development of the upper, middle, and lowerreaches of the Yangtze River and the high-quality development of the regions along theYangtze River.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 4 of 16Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 4 of 16   In addition, the output value of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, and fishery ac-counts for about 40% of that of China. The YREB consists of several plains, such as Jianghan Plain in Hubei  province, Dongting Lake Plain in Hunan province, Chengdu Plain in Sichuan province, Poyang Lake Plain in Jiangxi province, and Taihu Plain in Jiangsu and Zhejiang province and other country -level commodity grain bases. Its grain production accounts for ab out 40% of the country.  Based on the differences in conditions of geography, soil, climate, technology, etc., as well as the total amount of food production and consumption in different regions of the studied area, China is divided into three regions, i.e. , the main grain -producing area, the main grain marketing area, and the grain balance area. Main grain -producing area refers to key grain production areas that have suitable natural resource conditions for cultivating food crops and have certain technical advantages and economic effects. The main grain marketing area refers to the grain consumption area with more people and less land, low food self -sufficiency with rate of grain, and large gap in grain production and demand, which is mainly distributed in e conomically developed areas, such as the southeast coast of China and large cities. The grain balance area refers to the western region of China which is mainly located in remote areas with relatively backward economy, self -suffi-ciency in food production, and basic balance between production and demand in food.  The YREB has six main grain -producing areas, two main grain marketing areas, and three grain balance areas. The six main grain -producing areas are distributed in Sichuan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiang xi, and Anhui provinces. The two main grain marketing ar-eas are located on Zhejiang province and Shanghai city. The three grain balance areas are situated in Yunnan, Guizhou provinces, and Chongqing city. The Chinese government has committed to building th e YREB as a good ecological environment and high -quality development economic belt.  As the planting industry is the main agricultural area type in the studied area, ex-ploring the net carbon sequestration of grain -planting industry is of great significance to promote the green transformation of grain production and protect the agricultural eco-logical environment in the studied area.   Figure 1. Location map of Yangtze River economic belt.  Figure 1. Location map of Yangtze River economic belt.The YREB is an important food production base in China. It is abundant in naturalresources, especially arable land, which together cover one third of the total area of China. Inaddition, the output value of agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, and ﬁshery accountsfor about 40% of that of China. The YREB consists of several plains, such as Jianghan Plainin Hubei province, Dongting Lake Plain in Hunan province, Chengdu Plain in Sichuanprovince, Poyang Lake Plain in Jiangxi province, and Taihu Plain in Jiangsu and Zhejiangprovince and other country-level commodity grain bases. Its grain production accounts forabout 40% of the country.Based on the differences in conditions of geography, soil, climate, technology, etc., aswell as the total amount of food production and consumption in different regions of thestudied area, China is divided into three regions, i.e., the main grain-producing area, themain grain marketing area, and the grain balance area. Main grain-producing area refers tokey grain production areas that have suitable natural resource conditions for cultivatingfood crops and have certain technical advantages and economic effects. The main grainmarketing area refers to the grain consumption area with more people and less land, lowfood self-sufﬁciency with rate of grain, and large gap in grain production and demand,which is mainly distributed in economically developed areas, such as the southeast coast ofChina and large cities. The grain balance area refers to the western region of China which ismainly located in remote areas with relatively backward economy, self-sufﬁciency in foodproduction, and basic balance between production and demand in food.The YREB has six main grain-producing areas, two main grain marketing areas, andthree grain balance areas. The six main grain-producing areas are distributed in Sichuan,Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, and Anhui provinces. The two main grain marketingareas are located on Zhejiang province and Shanghai city. The three grain balance areasare situated in Yunnan, Guizhou provinces, and Chongqing city. The Chinese governmenthas committed to building the YREB as a good ecological environment and high-qualitydevelopment economic belt.As the planting industry is the main agricultural area type in the studied area, ex-ploring the net carbon sequestration of grain-planting industry is of great signiﬁcanceInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 5 of 16to promote the green transformation of grain production and protect the agriculturalecological environment in the studied area.2.2. Research Methods2.2.1. Research FrameworkIn this paper, the net carbon sequestration of food crops is estimated in the followingsteps (as shown in Figure 2). First, it is clariﬁed that the net carbon sequestration is inﬂu-enced by both carbon sequestration and carbon emission (consisting of three components:agricultural materials, rice growth, and grain growing ﬁelds), and on this basis, a regionaldifference evaluation model is constructed using the Gini coefﬁcient. Then, this paperanalyzes the dynamic change and regional differences of net carbon sequestration of foodcrops for the case study area of the YREB in China. In terms of time, this paper separatelyanalyzes the dynamic change trend of net carbon sequestration in the whole study area, andbased on this, the net carbon sequestration and the level of carbon sequestration of foodcrops in 11 provinces (cities) were analyzed dynamically. In terms of space, through theGini coefﬁcient, this paper analyzes provincial differences of the net carbon sequestrationlevel in the whole study area and the regional differences of the net carbon sequestrationlevel in in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the YREB. Finally, the results of thispaper are discussed, and feasible suggestions and future research directions are given.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 5 of 16   Figure 1. Location map of Yangtze River economic belt. 2.2. Research Methods 2.2.1. Research Framework In this paper, the net carbon sequestration of food crops is estimated in the following steps (as shown in Figure 2). First, it is clarified that the net carbon sequestration is influ-enced by both carbon sequestration and carbon  emission (consisting of three components: agricultural materials, rice growth, and grain growing fields), and on this basis, a regional difference evaluation model is constructed using the Gini coefficient. Then, this paper an-alyzes the dynamic change and regional differences of net carbon sequestration of food crops for the case study area of the YREB in Ch ina. In terms of time, this paper separately analyzes the dynamic change trend of net ca rbon sequestration in the whole study area, and based on this, the net carbon sequestratio n and the level of carb on sequestration of food crops in 11 provinces (cities) were analyzed dynamically. In terms of space, through the Gini coefficient, this paper analyzes prov incial differences of the net carbon sequestra-tion level in the whole study area and the re gional differences of the net carbon seques-tration level in in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the YREB. Finally, the results of this paper are discussed, and feasible suggestions and future research directions are given.  Figure 2.  Research framework . 2.2.2. Estimation on the Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops The net carbon sequestration of food crops is the differ ence between carbon seques-tration and carbon emission, and the carbon se questration level of food crops is the ratio of carbon sequestration to carbon emission. If the value is greater, the capacity of the net carbon sequestration is stronger, which can bett er reflect the effect of the net carbon se-questration in a region. The carbon sequestratio n of food crops was ca lculated as follows: 𝐶௧=෍ 𝐶 ௜௞௜ୀଵ=෍ 𝑟 ௜௞௜ୀଵ.𝑦௜.( 1−𝑤 ௜)/𝐸𝐶 ௜ (1)Figure 2. Research framework.2.2.2. Estimation on the Carbon Sequestration of Food CropsThe net carbon sequestration of food crops is the difference between carbon seques-tration and carbon emission, and the carbon sequestration level of food crops is the ratioof carbon sequestration to carbon emission. If the value is greater, the capacity of thenet carbon sequestration is stronger, which can better reﬂect the effect of the net carbonsequestration in a region. The carbon sequestration of food crops was calculated as follows:Ct=kåi=1Ci=kåi=1riyi(1 wi)/ECi (1)where Ctrepresents the total carbon absorption of food crops; iis the type of food crops;Ci,ri,yi,wi, and ECiare the carbon absorption, the carbon absorption rate, the economicInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 6 of 16yield, water content, and economic coefﬁcient of certain food crops, respectively. Thecarbon absorption rate, water content, and economic coefﬁcient of various food crops arefrom the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report [33] (Table 1).Table 1. Economic coefﬁcients, water content, and carbon absorption rates of major food cropsin China.Category Economic Coefﬁcient Water Content/% Carbon Absorption RateRice 0.45 12 0.414Wheat 0.40 12 0.485Corn 0.40 13 0.471Beans 0.34 13 0.450Tubers 0.70 70 0.4232.2.3. Estimation on the Carbon Emission of Food CropsThe carbon emission of food crops consists of three parts. The ﬁrst part comes fromthe input of agricultural materials, which mainly include chemical fertilizer, pesticide,agricultural ﬁlm, plastic ﬁlm, agricultural diesel, and agricultural land irrigation, etc. Here,we apply the weight coefﬁcient A to separate the input of the food production from thegeneralized input of agricultural production. Especially, the weight coefﬁcient A = thearea of food crops sowing/the area of crops sowing. The second part originates from CH 4emissions caused by the rice growth. The emission factor is taken as a comprehensiveemission factor that takes into account regional differences, climate change, etc., which ismore convincing and more realistic than a single emission coefﬁcient, as shown in Table 2.The relevant coefﬁcients are recommended by the report of IPCC [ 33]. The third part comesfrom N 2O emissions caused by grain growing ﬁelds [ 33]. As such, the carbon emission offood crops can be calculated with following equation:Et=kåi=1Ei=kåi=1Tidi (2)where iis the type of carbon sources; kis the number of carbon sources; Etis the totalcarbon emission from the food crops; Eiis the amount of carbon emission from each carbonsource; Tiis the amount of each carbon source; diis the carbon emission coefﬁcient of eachcarbon source.Table 2. The CH 4emission coefﬁcient of rice during its growth cycle in different regions of YangtzeRiver economic belt (g/m2).Region Early Rice Late Rice Mid-Season Rice Region Early Rice Late Rice Mid-Season RiceShanghai 12.41 27.5 53.87 Hunan 14.71 34.1 56.28Jiangsu 16.07 27.6 53.55 Chongqing 6.55 18.5 25.75Zhejiang 14.37 34.3 57.96 Sichuan 6.55 18.15 25.73Anhui 16.75 27.6 51.24 Guizhou 5.1 21 22.05Jiangxi 15.47 45.8 65.42 Yunnan 2.38 7.6 7.25Hubei 17.51 39 58.172.2.4. Construction of Regional Difference Evaluation Model of Net Carbon SequestrationGini coefﬁcient is an important index that can measure the inequality of incomeand wealth distribution, which can comprehensively investigate the difference of incomedistribution among residents. As such, this paper uses Gini coefﬁcient to measure theregional distribution fairness of carbon sequestration from food crops in the YREB andfurther to investigate the regional differences of net carbon sequestration of food production.Here, we propose a hypothesis: if the proportion of carbon sequestration from food cropsof each province (city) in the overall region is completely consistent with the proportionInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 7 of 16of carbon emission from food crops of one, there is absolute fairness among the regionaldistributions of net carbon sequestration in the YREB.Otherwise, we consider there are regional differences. From Figure 3, A representsthe area between the absolute average distribution curve of carbon sequestration andthe actual distribution curve of carbon sequestration. B is the area between the actualdistribution curve of carbon sequestration and horizontal axis. The Gini coefﬁcient of netcarbon sequestration from food crops is A/(A + B).Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 7 of 16   tribution among residents. As such, this paper uses Gini coefficient to measure the re-gional distribution fa irness of carbon sequestration from  food crops in the YREB and fur-ther to investigate the regional differences of  net carbon sequestratio n of food production. Here, we propose a hypothesis: if the proporti on of carbon sequestr ation from food crops of each province (city) in th e overall region is completely consistent with the proportion of carbon emission from food crops of one, there is absolute fairness among the regional distributions of net carbon sequestration in the YREB. Otherwise, we consider there are regional differences. From Figure 3, A represents the area between the absolute average distribu tion curve of carbon sequestration and the actual distribution curve of carbon sequestration. B is the area between the actual distri-bution curve of carbon seques tration and horizontal axis. The Gini coefficient of net car-bon sequestration from food crops is A/(A + B). Generally, the Gini coefficient is between 0 and 1. The smaller the Gini coefficient is, the more even the distribution is. On the contrary, the larger the Gini coefficient is, the more uneven the distribution is. Based on the value of Gini coefficient, we can obtain five types, i.e., absolute average, relatively average, relatively reasonable, large gap, and wide gap, which are represented by below 0.2, be tween 0.2 and 0.3, between 0.3 and 0.4, be-tween 0.4 and 0.5, and more than 0.5, respecti vely [34]. Moreover, 0.4 is usually regarded as the “warning line” of income gap. According to this international standard, the distri-bution equity of net carbon sequestration fr om food crops is calculated with following equation:  𝐺𝑖𝑛𝑖 𝑐𝑜𝑒𝑓𝑓𝑖𝑐𝑖𝑒𝑛𝑡 = 1 − ∑ (𝑋௝−𝑋 ௝ିଵ)(𝑌 ௝+𝑌 ௝ିଵ)௡௝ୀଵ  (3)where j is the province;  𝑋௝ is the cumulative percentage of carbon sequ estration from food crops; 𝑌௝ is the cumulative percentage of carbon emissions from food crops. When 𝑗 = 1, 𝑋௝ିଵ, and 𝑌௝ିଵ are regarded as 0, the horizontal axis represents the cumulative per-centage of carbon sequestration from food crop s of each province (city) in the overall re-gion. When the proportion of carbon sequestr ation from food crops in certain province (city) is greater than that of carbon emission , it means that the ecological environment of this province (city) is good for food produc tion. Meanwhile, this indicates the region has higher ecological capacity and can share part of the carbon emission from food crops for other provinces (cities).  Figure 3. Lorentz curve diagram of net carbon sequestration . 2.3. Data sources This paper takes the five kinds of main food crops as the research objects, i.e., rice, wheat, corn, beans, and tubers, and the time range is 2000–2018. Figure 3. Lorentz curve diagram of net carbon sequestration.Generally, the Gini coefﬁcient is between 0 and 1. The smaller the Gini coefﬁcient is,the more even the distribution is. On the contrary, the larger the Gini coefﬁcient is, themore uneven the distribution is. Based on the value of Gini coefﬁcient, we can obtain ﬁvetypes, i.e., absolute average, relatively average, relatively reasonable, large gap, and widegap, which are represented by below 0.2, between 0.2 and 0.3, between 0.3 and 0.4, between0.4 and 0.5, and more than 0.5, respectively [ 34]. Moreover, 0.4 is usually regarded as the“warning line” of income gap. According to this international standard, the distributionequity of net carbon sequestration from food crops is calculated with following equation:Ginicoe f f icient =1 ånj=1 Xj Xj 1 Yj+Yj 1(3)where jis the province; Xjis the cumulative percentage of carbon sequestration fromfood crops; Yjis the cumulative percentage of carbon emissions from food crops. Whenj= 1, Xj 1, and Yj 1are regarded as 0, the horizontal axis represents the cumulativepercentage of carbon sequestration from food crops of each province (city) in the overallregion. When the proportion of carbon sequestration from food crops in certain province(city) is greater than that of carbon emission, it means that the ecological environment ofthis province (city) is good for food production. Meanwhile, this indicates the region hashigher ecological capacity and can share part of the carbon emission from food crops forother provinces (cities).2.3. Data SourcesThis paper takes the ﬁve kinds of main food crops as the research objects, i.e., rice,wheat, corn, beans, and tubers, and the time range is 2000–2018.For the indicator of the carbon sequestration of food crops, the data on the carbonabsorption, the carbon absorption rate, the economic yield, water content, and economiccoefﬁcient of certain food crop are from the IPCC report, and the data on the economicyield are from the China Rural Statistical Yearbook ; for the indicator of the carbon emission offood crops, the data on the output of various food crops, the sowing area of the rice, theInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 8 of 16amount of chemical fertilizer, pesticide, agricultural ﬁlm, plastic ﬁlm, agricultural diesel,and the agricultural land irrigation invested in the food production are from the ChinaRural Statistical Yearbook, and the data on the CH 4emissions caused by the rice growth andthe N 2O emissions caused by grain growing ﬁelds are from the IPCC report.3. Results and Analysis3.1. Dynamic Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops3.1.1. Overall Dynamic Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food CropsThe total amount of the carbon sequestration, carbon emission, and net carbon seques-tration from food crops in the YREB from 2000–2018 is shown in Figure 4. The net carbonsequestration of food crops maintains an upward trend, while the carbon emission shows aﬂuctuating downward trend. From 2000–2018, the net carbon sequestration of the regionincreases from 7.70669 107t to 1.306066 108t, which increases by 69.47%. The carbonemission decreases from 9.02022 107t to 7.78215 107t, which decreases by 15.09%.The total carbon sequestration increases from 1.672690 108t to 2.024332 108t, whichincreases by 21.02%. On the whole, the carbon sequestration from food crops in the YREBis gradually increasing. The carbon emission shows a “decline-rise-decline” trend, whichindicates that the ecological environment of the food production in the YREB is graduallyimproving.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 8 of 16   For the indicator of the carbon sequestration of food crops, the data on the carbon absorption, the carbon absorption rate, the ec onomic yield, water content, and economic coefficient of certain food crop are from th e IPCC report, and the data on the economic yield are from the China Rural Statistical Yearbook ; for the indicator of the carbon emission of food crops, the data on the output of variou s food crops, the sowing area of the rice, the amount of chemical fertilizer, pesticide, agricultural film, plastic film, agricultural diesel, and the agricultural land irrigation invest ed in the food production are from the China Rural Statistical Yearbook, and the data on the CH 4 emissions caused by the rice growth and the N 2O emissions caused by grain growing fields are from the IPCC report.  3. Results and Analysis 3.1. Dynamic Analysis on the Net Ca rbon Sequestration of Food Crops 3.1.1. Overall Dynamic Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops The total amount of the carbon sequestrat ion, carbon emission, and net carbon se-questration from food crops in the YREB from  2000–2018 is shown in Figure 4. The net carbon sequestration of food crops maintains an upward trend, while the carbon emission shows a fluctuating downward trend. From 2 000–2018, the net carbon sequestration of the region increases from 7.70669 × 107 t to 1.306066 × 108 t, which increases by 69.47%. The carbon emission decreases from 9.02022 × 107 t to 7.78215 × 107 t, which decreases by 15.09%. The total carbon sequestration increases from 1.672690 × 108 t to 2.024332 × 108 t, which increases by 21.02%. On the whole, the carbon sequestration from food crops in the YREB is gradually increasing. The carbon emis sion shows a “decline-rise-decline” trend, which indicates that the ecological environm ent of the food production in the YREB is gradually improving.  Figure 4. The total carbon sequestration, total carbon emission, and net carbon sequestration from food crops in the YREB (104 t C).   Figure 4. The total carbon sequestration, total carbon emission, and net carbon sequestration fromfood crops in the YREB (104t C).3.1.2. Dynamic Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops in VariousProvinces (Cities)The levels of net carbon sequestration of food crops in various provinces (cities) inthe YREB are shown in Figure 5. Here, we only show the results of 2000, 2006, 2012, and2018 in Figure 5. The detailed results are presented in the Supplementary File (Table S1).Compared with 2000, the net carbon sequestration of food crops in various provinces(cities) in 2018 shows obvious regional differences. Except for Shanghai and Guizhou,the other nine provinces (cities) show an upward trend. Especially, Guizhou as a grainbalance area shows the largest decline rate of 18.88%. In addition, Shanghai as a mainInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 9 of 16grain sales area has a decline rate of 12.19%. The possible reason is that the grain sownarea has been greatly reduced with the transformation of industrial structure in Guizhouand Shanghai, which leads to a decrease of carbon sequestration accordingly. According totheChina Statistical Yearbook , the grain-sowing area of Guizhou falls from 3153.3 thousandhm2to 2740.2 thousand hm2from 2000 to 2018, and the grain-sowing area of Shanghaifalls from 258.8 thousand hm2to 133.1 thousand hm2. In addition, the rising range ofthe net carbon sequestration in Anhui is the largest, which increases by 183.59%, whichis followed by Hunan and Jiangxi, i.e., 171.67% and 137.87%, respectively. Although theranking of net carbon sequestration in Hubei and Jiangsu province in 2018 is not at thetop, with the gradual increase of grain-sowing area, the net carbon sequestration is alsoincreasing gradually.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 10 of 16    Figure 5. Changes of total net carbon sequestration of fo od crops in 11 provinces (cities) of YREB. 3.2. Dynamic Analysis on the Carbon Sequestrati on Level of Food Crops in Various Provinces (Cities) The carbon sequestration levels of food cr ops in various provinces (cities) are shown in Figure 6. The carbon sequestration level of  food crops in 2018 is ranked as follows: Yunnan > Sichuan >Guizhou> Chongqing > Anhu i > Jiangsu > Hubei > Shanghai > Hunan > Zhejiang > Jiangxi. Compared with the ranking of net carbon sequestration, the ranking of Yunnan, Sichuan, and Guizhou is relatively at the top, while that of Jiangsu, Hubei, and Hunan lags behind. In addition, the rising range of Anhui is the largest, attaining 90.59%. Correspondingly, the rising range of Guizhou is the smallest, attaining only 90.59%. According to the time series changing charac teristics of carbon sequestration level in each province (city), we can divide 11 provinces (cities) into three types of areas, i.e., the continuous growth area, the fluctuating growth  area, and the fluctuating descent area. For the continuous growth area, the level of carb on sequestration shows an increasing trend at each time point compared with the previous time point. As such, six provinces (cities) such as Anhui, Jiangsu, Chongqing, Jiangxi, Hubei, and Hunan meet this characteristic. For the fluctuating growth area, the level of carbon sequestration shows an upward trend on the whole and a downward trend at some time points. As such, three provinces such as Zhejiang, Sichuan, and Yunnan meet this characteristic. For the fluctuating descent area, the level of carbon sequestration sh ows a downward trend on the whole and an upward trend at some time points. As such, two provinces (cities) such as Shanghai and Guizhou meet this characteristic. Figure 5. Changes of total net carbon sequestration of food crops in 11 provinces (cities) of YREB.Taking 2018 as a horizontal comparison year, the net carbon sequestration of foodcrops in 11 provinces (cities) of the YREB is ranked as follows: Anhui > Jiangsu > Sichuan> Yunnan > Hubei > Hunan > Guizhou > Chongqing > Zhejiang > Jiangxi > Shanghai.Five provinces in the major grain-producing area are at the top of the ranking, i.e., Anhui,Jiangsu, Sichuan, Hubei, and Hunan. Two provinces in the main grain sales area list inthe lower ranking, i.e., Shanghai and Zhejiang, and two provinces in the grain balancearea are in the middle of the ranking, i.e., Yunnan and Guizhou. We demonstrate that themain grain-producing area receives more attention to the protection of grain ecologicalenvironment, compared with the main grain sales area and the grain balance area. Thegap of net carbon sequestration of food crops is very large in the major grain-producingarea, i.e., 2.74751 107t for Anhui, 2.24578 107t for Jiangsu, only 1.33197 107t forHubei, and 1.15972 107t for Hunan, respectively. The possible reason is that Anhuiand Jiangsu have relatively advanced agricultural production technology and productionconcept, which results in a relatively good agricultural ecological environment.3.2. Dynamic Analysis on the Carbon Sequestration Level of Food Crops in VariousProvinces (Cities)The carbon sequestration levels of food crops in various provinces (cities) are shown inFigure 6. The carbon sequestration level of food crops in 2018 is ranked as follows: Yunnan> Sichuan > Guizhou > Chongqing > Anhui > Jiangsu > Hubei > Shanghai > Hunan >Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 10 of 16Zhejiang > Jiangxi. Compared with the ranking of net carbon sequestration, the ranking ofYunnan, Sichuan, and Guizhou is relatively at the top, while that of Jiangsu, Hubei, andHunan lags behind. In addition, the rising range of Anhui is the largest, attaining 90.59%.Correspondingly, the rising range of Guizhou is the smallest, attaining only 90.59%.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 11 of 16    Figure 6. Changes of carbon sequestration level of food  crops in 11 provinces (cities) of YREB. (Note: the level of carbon seques trations is the ratio between ca rbon sequestrations and carbon emissions). 3.3. Regional Difference Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops In this paper, the regional differences of the net carbon sequestr ation level of food crops are analyzed in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the YREB. 3.3.1. Regional Differences of Net Carbon Se questration Level of Food Crops in 11 Prov-inces (Cities) of the YREB From Figure 7, the Gini coefficient of the net carbon sequestration level of food crops in 11 provinces (cities) shows an upward trend overall from 0.234 in 2000 to 0.287 in 2018, which increases by 22.65% during the studied pe riod. It shows that the regional difference of the net carbon sequestration level of food crops in various provinces (cities) is gradually expanding. The Gini coefficient value indicates that the distribution characteristics of the net carbon sequestration level in various provin ces (cities) are in the state of “relatively average” from 2000–2018. Especially, the region al difference of net carbon sequestration level in various provinces (cities) became smaller from 2006–2016, while becoming wider after 2016. Figure 6. Changes of carbon sequestration level of food crops in 11 provinces (cities) of YREB. (Note:The level of carbon sequestrations is the ratio between carbon sequestrations and carbon emissions).According to the time series changing characteristics of carbon sequestration level ineach province (city), we can divide 11 provinces (cities) into three types of areas, i.e., thecontinuous growth area, the ﬂuctuating growth area, and the ﬂuctuating descent area. Forthe continuous growth area, the level of carbon sequestration shows an increasing trendat each time point compared with the previous time point. As such, six provinces (cities)such as Anhui, Jiangsu, Chongqing, Jiangxi, Hubei, and Hunan meet this characteristic.For the ﬂuctuating growth area, the level of carbon sequestration shows an upward trendon the whole and a downward trend at some time points. As such, three provinces such asZhejiang, Sichuan, and Yunnan meet this characteristic. For the ﬂuctuating descent area,the level of carbon sequestration shows a downward trend on the whole and an upwardtrend at some time points. As such, two provinces (cities) such as Shanghai and Guizhoumeet this characteristic.3.3. Regional Difference Analysis on the Net Carbon Sequestration of Food CropsIn this paper, the regional differences of the net carbon sequestration level of foodcrops are analyzed in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the YREB.3.3.1. Regional Differences of Net Carbon Sequestration Level of Food Crops in 11Provinces (Cities) of the YREBFrom Figure 7, the Gini coefﬁcient of the net carbon sequestration level of food cropsin 11 provinces (cities) shows an upward trend overall from 0.234 in 2000 to 0.287 in 2018,Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 11 of 16which increases by 22.65% during the studied period. It shows that the regional differenceof the net carbon sequestration level of food crops in various provinces (cities) is graduallyexpanding. The Gini coefﬁcient value indicates that the distribution characteristics of thenet carbon sequestration level in various provinces (cities) are in the state of “relativelyaverage” from 2000–2018. Especially, the regional difference of net carbon sequestrationlevel in various provinces (cities) became smaller from 2006–2016, while becoming widerafter 2016.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 12 of 16    Figure 7. The Gini coefficient of the net carbon sequestr ation level of food crops in the 11 provinces (cities) of the YREB. 3.3.2. Regional Differences of net Carbon Se questration Level of Food Crops in the Up-per, Middle, and Lower Reaches of Yangtze River Economic Belt As is shown in Figure 8, the values of th e Gini coefficient in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the YREB are ranked as follows: lower reaches > middle reaches > upper reaches. This indicates that the regional difference in the lower reaches is the largest, fol-lowed by the middle reaches and the upper re aches, which may be caused by the differ-ences of food production in various provinces (cities). Taking the lower-reaches region as an example, the food-sowing area in Zhejiang and Shanghai is relatively small and declin-ing year by year. The food-sowing area in Ji angsu and Anhui is gradually increasing, from 5304.3 thousand hm2 to 5475.9 thousand hm2 in Jiangsu and from 6183.8 thousand hm2 to 7316.3 thousand hm2 in Anhui during the studied period. The regional difference of the net carbon sequestration level in the middle reac hes is relatively small, which is attributed to the small difference of the food-sowing area. From Figure 8, the Gini coefficient value in  the upper-reaches region is between 0.171 and 0.218, which indicates the distribution characteristic of the net carbon sequestration level changes from the “absolute average” stat e to the “comparative average” state, show-ing a fluctuating upward trend. Moreover, the value of the Gini coef ficient in 2007 is the smallest, which indicates that the regional diff erence of the distribution of net carbon se-questration was the smallest. In 2013, the value of Gini coefficient reached the maximum value, which signifies that the regional differen ce of the distribution of net carbon seques-tration was the largest. The values of the Gini coefficient for food crops in the lower reaches are between 0.252 and 0.293, which indicates the distributi on characteristics are in a “comparative av-erage” state. The change trend is similar wi th that in the middle reaches. However, the regional difference of the net carbon sequestration is larger than that in the middle-reaches region, which generally presents a “decline-rise-decline-rise” state. In 2006, the Gini coef-ficient reached the minimum value, which indicates that the regional difference of net carbon sequestration in 2006 was the smallest . In 2000, the Gini coefficient reached the maximum value, so the regional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2000 was the largest. The values of Gini coefficient in the mi ddle reaches are between 0.235 and 0.309, which indicates the distribution of net carb on sequestration changed from the “compara-tive average” state to the “relatively reasonable ” state. The regional di stribution difference of the middle reaches is between the upper reaches and lower reaches, and the change trend shows a “decline-up” state. In 2005, th e Gini coefficient reached the minimum, so the regional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2005 was the Figure 7. The Gini coefﬁcient of the net carbon sequestration level of food crops in the 11 provinces(cities) of the YREB.3.3.2. Regional Differences of Net Carbon Sequestration Level of Food Crops in the Upper,Middle, and Lower Reaches of Yangtze River Economic BeltAs is shown in Figure 8, the values of the Gini coefﬁcient in the upper, middle,and lower reaches of the YREB are ranked as follows: lower reaches > middle reaches> upper reaches. This indicates that the regional difference in the lower reaches is thelargest, followed by the middle reaches and the upper reaches, which may be caused bythe differences of food production in various provinces (cities). Taking the lower-reachesregion as an example, the food-sowing area in Zhejiang and Shanghai is relatively small anddeclining year by year. The food-sowing area in Jiangsu and Anhui is gradually increasing,from 5304.3 thousand hm2to 5475.9 thousand hm2in Jiangsu and from 6183.8 thousandhm2to 7316.3 thousand hm2in Anhui during the studied period. The regional differenceof the net carbon sequestration level in the middle reaches is relatively small, which isattributed to the small difference of the food-sowing area.From Figure 8, the Gini coefﬁcient value in the upper-reaches region is between 0.171and 0.218, which indicates the distribution characteristic of the net carbon sequestrationlevel changes from the “absolute average” state to the “comparative average” state, show-ing a ﬂuctuating upward trend. Moreover, the value of the Gini coefﬁcient in 2007 isthe smallest, which indicates that the regional difference of the distribution of net carbonsequestration was the smallest. In 2013, the value of Gini coefﬁcient reached the maxi-mum value, which signiﬁes that the regional difference of the distribution of net carbonsequestration was the largest.The values of the Gini coefﬁcient for food crops in the lower reaches are between 0.252and 0.293, which indicates the distribution characteristics are in a “comparative average”state. The change trend is similar with that in the middle reaches. However, the regionaldifference of the net carbon sequestration is larger than that in the middle-reaches region,which generally presents a “decline-rise-decline-rise” state. In 2006, the Gini coefﬁcientreached the minimum value, which indicates that the regional difference of net carbonsequestration in 2006 was the smallest. In 2000, the Gini coefﬁcient reached the maximumvalue, so the regional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2000 wasthe largest.Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 12 of 16Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 , 19, x 13 of 16   smallest. In addition, the Gini coefficient reached the maximum value in 2017, which in-dicates the regional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2017 was the largest.  Figure 8. Evolution of intra-regional gap of net carbon sequestration of grain food crops in the YREB. 4. Discussion 4.1. The Spatio-Temporal Patterns of Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops in the YREB The net carbon sequestration of food cr ops in the YREB experiences two different stages from declining to increasing over the study period. In the first stage (2000–2003), the net carbon sequestration continued to decl ine; this is probably because farmers’ en-thusiasm for planting the food crops is reduced by the heavy tax burden, which directly affected the production of rice, wheat, and maize, resulting in a decline in the net carbon sequestration of food crops during this period. In the second stage (2004-2018), the net carbon sequestration was on a rising trend. Since 2004, the agricultural tax has been abol-ished in China, which promoted the increase of grain-sowing areas, and the total output of grain in the Yangtze River economic belt continued to grow, resulting in the continuous increase of net carbon sequ estration of food crops. Understanding and analyzing the heterogene ous heterogeneity char acteristics of the net carbon sequestration level in different areas’ provinces and cities contributes to estab-lishing the corresponding emission reduction concept. The net carbon sequestration of food crops in various provinces (cities) show s obvious regional difference from 2000 to 2018; except for Shanghai and Guizhou, the ot her nine provinces (cities) show an upward trend. The carbon sequestration of food crops in the main grain-producing areas is higher than that in other areas, from which can be inferred that the provinces in the main grain-producing areas pay more attention to  the protection of environment. The petrochemical agriculture that relies on the input of chemical fertilizers and pes-ticides contributes to the increase of grain production in a certain period time, but it also brings great damage to the environment such as water resources, arable land, and the atmosphere, as well as food quality. As such, the green transformation needs to be imple-mented to increase the organic matter conten t of soil, improve the quality of water re-Figure 8. Evolution of intra-regional gap of net carbon sequestration of grain food crops in the YREB.The values of Gini coefﬁcient in the middle reaches are between 0.235 and 0.309, whichindicates the distribution of net carbon sequestration changed from the “comparativeaverage” state to the “relatively reasonable” state. The regional distribution differenceof the middle reaches is between the upper reaches and lower reaches, and the changetrend shows a “decline-up” state. In 2005, the Gini coefﬁcient reached the minimum, so theregional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2005 was the smallest.In addition, the Gini coefﬁcient reached the maximum value in 2017, which indicates theregional difference of the distribution of net carbon sequestration in 2017 was the largest.4. Discussion4.1. The Spatio-Temporal Patterns of Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops in the YREBThe net carbon sequestration of food crops in the YREB experiences two differentstages from declining to increasing over the study period. In the ﬁrst stage (2000–2003), thenet carbon sequestration continued to decline; this is probably because farmers’ enthusiasmfor planting the food crops is reduced by the heavy tax burden, which directly affected theproduction of rice, wheat, and maize, resulting in a decline in the net carbon sequestration offood crops during this period. In the second stage (2004–2018), the net carbon sequestrationwas on a rising trend. Since 2004, the agricultural tax has been abolished in China, whichpromoted the increase of grain-sowing areas, and the total output of grain in the YangtzeRiver economic belt continued to grow, resulting in the continuous increase of net carbonsequestration of food crops.Understanding and analyzing the heterogeneous heterogeneity characteristics of thenet carbon sequestration level in different areas’ provinces and cities contributes to estab-lishing the corresponding emission reduction concept. The net carbon sequestration of foodcrops in various provinces (cities) shows obvious regional difference from 2000 to 2018;except for Shanghai and Guizhou, the other nine provinces (cities) show an upward trend.The carbon sequestration of food crops in the main grain-producing areas is higher than thatin other areas, from which can be inferred that the provinces in the main grain-producingareas pay more attention to the protection of environment.The petrochemical agriculture that relies on the input of chemical fertilizers andpesticides contributes to the increase of grain production in a certain period time, but itInt. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 13 of 16also brings great damage to the environment such as water resources, arable land, andthe atmosphere, as well as food quality. As such, the green transformation needs to beimplemented to increase the organic matter content of soil, improve the quality of waterresources and air, and ﬁnally ensure food safety. At the same time, technicians shouldperform demonstrations and training of green conservation farming technology, such asstraw returning, green control of diseases and insect pests, soil testing formulas, scientiﬁcfertilization, and medicine, so as to reduce carbon emissions from food production atthe source.4.2. The Regional Differences of Net Carbon Sequestration of Food Crops in the YREBThe values of the Gini coefﬁcient indicate that the regional difference in the lowerreaches is the largest, followed by the middle reaches and the upper reaches. The mainreason for the above differences may lie in the differences of grain-sowing areas in the upper,middle, and lower reaches of the Yangtze River economic belt. Among all regions, the levelof economic development in the lower reaches is the highest, and with the increase of theurbanization rate, a large amount of agricultural land has been occupied by industrial land;thus, the area of cultivated land has gradually shrunk in some provinces, such as in Zhejiangand Shanghai. As a result, the difference of grain-sown areas in this region is growing.However, there are many mountains in the downstream area; thus, there is less arableland in some provinces, such as Yunnan and Guizhou, so there is also a certain differencein this region. The provinces in the middle reaches are mainly the main grain-producingprovinces, so the difference of grain-sown areas in this region is relatively small.To avoid the above problems, the government should carry out the following tactics,including the expansion of the sown area, curbing the non-agricultural conversion of arableland, improving the multiple cropping index of the arable land, increasing the investment ingrain breeding technology, speeding up the modernization of the entire grain industry chain,etc., so as to expand the sown area of food, increase the carbon sequestration of food crops,and ﬁnally reduce the regional differences of net carbon sequestration of food crops in theYREB. In addition, downstream provinces should also give some ecological compensationto midstream provinces to reward their contributions to food carbon sequestration.4.3. Advantages and Limitations of This Study and Future Research DirectionsCompared with previous studies, the research vision of this study is further expanded.This study develops an objective framework for evaluating the environmental beneﬁts ofgrain planting from the perspective of net carbon sequestration and analyzes the spatialand temporal characteristics of the net carbon sequestration in different areas. It is nolonger limited to the single-perspective research of agricultural carbon emission, and it con-ducts research from the two perspectives of agricultural carbon emission and agriculturalcarbon sequestration, which can better analyze the environmental problems of agriculturalproduction. In this study, the concept of net carbon sequestration is used to analyze carbonsequestration and carbon emission in the same framework.However, there are also some limitations in this study. Firstly, there are some limita-tions in the deﬁnition and calculation system of carbon emission, carbon sequestration, andnet carbon sequestration, which need to be further reﬁned and improved. Secondly, due tothe limitations of the existing data, we apply the same indicators in different areas of theYREB, where they may have different features such as economic coefﬁcient, water content,and carbon absorption in the upper, middle, and lower reaches. Thirdly, factors such aspopulation growth, the industrialization rate, and other inﬂuencing factors also have animpact on the carbon sequestration of food production. However, the existing methods formeasuring carbon emissions and carbon sequestration of food crops mainly consider theinternal factors related to the growth of food crops and do not consider the external factorssuch as population and industrialization rate. In future research, we will use econometricresearch methods to analyze the impact of population, industrialization rate, and otherinﬂuencing factors on carbon emissions and carbon sequestration of food crops. In addition,Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 14 of 16this study does not analyze the economic beneﬁts of net carbon sequestration of food crops,which will be taken into consideration in future studies.5. ConclusionsThis study analyzes the dynamic change and regional differences of net carbon se-questration of food crops from temporal and spatial perspectives for the case study area of11 provinces (cities) of the YREB from 2000–2018 in China. The net carbon sequestrationof food crops keeps continuously increasing, while carbon emissions show a ﬂuctuatingdownward trend over the study period. Remarkable regional differences in the net carbonsequestration of food crops exist, and most provinces (cities) show an upward trend for thestudied area. Except for Shanghai and Guizhou, the remaining nine provinces (cities) showan upward trend, and the decline range of Guizhou is the largest. The spatial distributionsof the net carbon sequestration of food crop show obvious heterogeneity in the upper,middle, and lower reaches of studied area. Speciﬁcally, the Gini coefﬁcient value in theYREB is ranked as: lower reaches > middle reaches > upper reaches. That is to say thatthe most uneven place is located on the lower reaches, followed by the middle reaches,and the least uneven place is in the upper reaches. To further facilitate the activity relatedto reducing the carbon emissions of the agricultural production sector, we will explorethe economic beneﬁts and the inﬂuencing factors of net carbon sequestration from foodproduction in the future.Supplementary Materials: The following are available online at https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/ijerph192013229/s1, Table S1: Changes of total net carbon sequestration and carbon sequestra-tion level of food crops in 11 provinces (cities) of Yangtze River economic belt (2000–2018).Author Contributions: Conceptualization, X.L. (Xiangmei Li) and L.Z.; methodology: L.Z.; software:X.L. (Xiangmei Li) and C.A.; data curation: L.Z.; writing—original draft preparation: L.Z., X.L.(Xiangmei Li) and C.A.; writing—review and editing: X.L. (Xiangmei Li) and X.L. (Xincheng Li);supervision and investigation: X.L. (Xiangmei Li). All authors have read and agreed to the publishedversion of the manuscript.Funding: This research was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China(71803040; 72003201) and the Ministry of Education Humanities Youth Project (19YJC790093).Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Conﬂicts of Interest: We declare that we have no ﬁnancial and personal relationships with otherpeople or organizations that can inappropriately inﬂuence our work, and there is no professional orother personal interest of any nature or kind in any product, service, and/or company that couldbe construed as inﬂuencing the position presented in, or the review of, the manuscript entitled“Dynamic change and regional differences of net carbon sequestration of food crops in the YangtzeRiver Economic Belt of China”.References1. Godfray, H.; Garnett, T. Food security and sustainable intensiﬁcation. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 2014 ,369, 20120273.[CrossRef]2. Conijn, J.G.; Bindraban, P .S.; Schrder, J.J.; Jongschaap, R. Can our global food system meet food demand within planetaryboundaries? Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2018 ,251, 244–256. [CrossRef]3. Spang Edward, S.; Achmon, Y.; Donis-Gonzalez, I.; Gosliner, W.A.; Jablonski-Shefﬁeld, M.P .; Momin, A.; Quested, T.E.; Winans,K.S.; Tomich, T.P . Food Loss and Waste: Measurement, Drivers, and Solutions. Annu. Rev. Environ. Resour. 2019 ,44, 117–156.[CrossRef]4. Nijbroek, R.P .; Andelman, S.J. Regional suitability for agricultural intensiﬁcation: A spatial analysis of the Southern AgriculturalGrowth Corridor of Tanzania. Int. J. Agric. Sustain. 2016 ,14, 231–247. [CrossRef]5. Mungai, L.M.; Messina, J.P .; Snapp, S. Spatial Pattern of Agricultural Productivity Trends in Malawi. Sustainability 2020 ,12, 1313.[CrossRef]Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 15 of 166. Aguirre-Liguori, J.A.; Santiago, R.B.; Peter, T.; Eguiarte, L.E. Climate change is predicted to disrupt patterns of local adaptation inwild and cultivated maize. Proc. Biol. Sci. 2020 ,286, 486. [CrossRef]7. Smith, P .; Calvin, K.; Nkem, J.; Campbell, D.; Cherubini, F.; Grassi, G.; Korotkov, V .; le Hoang, A.; Lwasa, S.; McElwee, P .;et al. Which practices co-deliver food security, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and combat land degradation anddesertiﬁcation? Glob. Chang. Biol. 2020 ,26, 1532–1575. [CrossRef]8. Savary, S.; Willocquet, L. Modeling the impact of crop diseases on global food security. Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 2020 ,58, 313–341.[CrossRef] [PubMed]9. Toro, A.; Hars ányi, E. What is the Connection between Soil Carbon Dioxide Emission, Global Warming and Food Security? Eur. J.Sustain. Dev. 2019 ,8, 21. [CrossRef]10. Smith, P . Carbon sequestration in croplands: The potential in Europe and the global context. Eur. J. Agron. 2004 ,20, 229–236.[CrossRef]11. EPA. Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data. Available online: https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/global-greenhouse-gas-emissions-data (accessed on 20 May 2020).12. Fang, J.; Yu, G.; Liu, L.; Hu, S.; Chapin, F.S. Climate change, human impacts, and carbon sequestration in China. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2018 ,115, 4015–4020. [CrossRef] [PubMed]13. Tang, H.; Liu, Y.; Li, X.; Muhammad, A.; Huang, G. Carbon sequestration of cropland and paddy soils in China: Potential, drivingfactors, and mechanisms. Greenh. Gases Sci. Technol. 2019 ,9, 872–885. [CrossRef]14. Chen, X.; Ma, C.; Zhou, H.; Liu, Y.; Huang, X.; Wang, M.; Cai, Y.; Su, D.; Atif Muneer, M.; Guo, M.; et al. Identifying the maincrops and key factors determining the carbon footprint of crop production in China, 2001–2018. Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 2021 ,172,105661. [CrossRef]15. Luo, Y. “Facing the virus” anaphora in political speech: A faircloughian analysis of president Xi Jinping’s address to UnitedNations general assembly. Linguist. Cult. Rev. 2021 ,5, 1039–1053. [CrossRef]16. Höhne, N.; Gidden, M.J.; den Elzen, M.; Hans, F.; Fyson, C.; Geiges, A.; Rogelj, J. Wave of net zero emission targets opens windowto meeting the Paris Agreement. Nat. Clim. Chang. 2021 ,11, 820–822. [CrossRef]17. Vleeshouwers, L.M.; Verhagen, A. Carbon emission and sequestration by agricultural land use: A model study for europe. Glob.Chang. Biol. 2010 ,8, 519–530. [CrossRef]18. Alamdarlo, N.H. Water consumption, agriculture value added and carbon dioxide emission in iran, environmental kuznets curvehypothesis. Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2016 ,13, 2079–2090. [CrossRef]19. Yadav, D.; Wang, J. Modelling carbon dioxide emissions from agricultural soils in Canada. Environ. Pollut. 2017 ,230, 1040–1049.[CrossRef]20. Huang, J.Y.; Chen, Y.; Pan, J.; Liu, W.; Yang, G.; Xiao, X.; Zheng, H.; Tang, W.; Tang, H.; Zhou, L.J. Carbon footprint of differentagricultural systems in china estimated by different evaluation metrics. J. Clean. Prod. 2019 ,225, 939–948. [CrossRef]21. Tao, F.; Palosuo, T.; Valkama, E.; Mäkipää, R. Cropland soils in china have a large potential for carbon sequestration based onliterature survey. Soil Tillage Res. 2019 ,186, 70–78. [CrossRef]22. Yao, Z.; Zheng, X.; Liu, C.; Wang, R.; Xie, B.; Butterbach-Bahl, K. Stand age ampliﬁes greenhouse gas and no releases followingconversion of rice paddy to tea plantations in subtropical china. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2018 ,248, 386–396. [CrossRef]23. Johnson, M.F.; Franzluebbers, A.J.; Weyers, S.L.; Reicosky, D.C. Agricultural opportunities to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.Environ. Pollut. 2007 ,150, 107–124. [CrossRef]24. Zou, X.X.; Li, Y.E.; Li, K.; Cremades, R.; Qin, X.B. Greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural irrigation in China. Mitig. Adapt.Strateg. Glob. Chang. 2015 ,20, 295–315. [CrossRef]25. Xiong, C.; Yang, D.; Huo, J.; Wang, G. Agricultural net carbon effect and agricultural carbon sink compensation mechanism inhotan prefecture, china. Pol. J. Environ. Stud. 2017 ,26, 365–373. [CrossRef]26. Ochieng, R.M.; Visseren-Hamakers, I.J.; Brockhaus, M.; Kowler, L.F.; Herold, M.; Arts, B. Historical development of institutionalarrangements for forest monitoring and redd+ mrv in peru: Discursive-institutionalist perspectives. For. Policy Econ. 2016 ,71,52–59. [CrossRef]27. Goodale, C.L.; Apps, M.J.; Birdsey, R.A.; Field, C.B.; Heath, L.S.; Houghton, R.A.; Jenkins, J.C.; Kohlmaier, G.H.; Kurz, W.; Liu, S.;et al. Forest carbon sinks in the northern hemisphere. Ecol. Appl. 2002 ,12, 891–899. [CrossRef]28. Hultman, N.E.; Pulver, S.; Pacca, S.; Saran, S.; Powell, L.; Romeiro, V .; Benney, T. Carbon markets and low-carbon investment inemerging economies: A synthesis of parallel workshops in Brazil and India. Energy Policy 2011 ,39, 6698–6700. [CrossRef]29. Lashof, D.A.; Ahuja, D.R. Relative contributions of greenhouse gas emissions to global warming. Nature 1990 ,344, 529–531.[CrossRef]30. Soytas, U.; Sari, R. Energy consumption, economic growth, and carbon emissions: Challenges faced by an EU candidate member.Ecol. Econ. 2009 ,68, 1667–1675. [CrossRef]31. She, W.; Wu, Y.; Huang, H.; Chen, Z.; Cui, G.; Zheng, H.; Guan, C.; Chen, F. Integrative analysis of carbon structure and carbonsink function for major crop production in China’s typical agriculture regions. J. Clean. Prod. 2017 ,162, 702–708. [CrossRef]32. Kang, K.; Chen, Y.; Guo, P .; Chen, J. Study on the Impact of Grain Production on Ecological Carbon Sequestration. Chin. J. Agric.Resour. Reg. Plan. 2022 , 1–11. Available online: https://kns.cnki.net/kcms/detail/11.3513.S.20220720.1912.012.html (accessed on25 July 2022). (In Chinese)Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2022 ,19, 13229 16 of 1633. IPCC. IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories ; IPCC: Geneva, Switzerland, 2006.34. Padilla, E.; Serrano, A. Inequality in CO 2Emissions across Countries and Its Relationship with Income Inequality: A DistributiveApproach. Energy Policy 2006 ,34, 1762–1772. [CrossRef]