2686   |   wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/gcb Glob Change Biol. 2020;26:2686–2701.© 2020 John Wiley & Sons Ltd Received: 20 September 2019  |  Revised: 24 December 2019  |  Accepted: 13 January 2020DOI: 10.1111/gcb.15018  PRIMARY RESEARCH ARTICLEEffects of long-term straw return on soil organic carbon storage and sequestration rate in North China upland crops:  A meta-analysisMedhn Berhane |   Miao Xu |   Zhiying Liang |   Jianglan Shi |   Gehong Wei |   Xiaohong TianState Key Lab of Crop Stress Biology in Arid Areas/Key Lab of Plant Nutrition and the Agri-environment in Northwest China, Ministry of Agriculture/College of Natural Resources and Environment Northwest A&F University, Yangling, ChinaCorrespondenceXiaohong Tian, State Key Lab of Crop Stress Biology in Arid Areas/Key Lab of Plant Nutrition and the Agri-environment in Northwest China, Ministry of Agriculture/College of Natural Resources and Environment Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi 712100, China.Email: txhong@hotmail.com; txhong@nwafu.edu.cnFunding informationNational Key R & D Program, Grant/Award  Number: 2016YFD0200308;  Key Research and Development Program of Shaanxi, Grant/Award Number: 2019ZDLNY01-05-01; Key Technologies  R & D program of China, Grant/Award Number: 2012BAD14B11AbstractSoil organic carbon (SOC) is essential for soil fertility and climate change mitigation, and carbon can be sequestered in soil through proper soil management, including straw return. However, results of studies of long-term straw return on SOC are con -tradictory and increasing SOC stocks in upland soils is challenging. This study of North China upland agricultural fields quantified the effects of several fertilizer and straw return treatments on SOC storage changes and crop yields, considering dif -ferent cropping duration periods, soil types, and cropping systems to establish the relationships of SOC sequestration rates with initial SOC stocks and annual straw C inputs. Our meta-analysis using long-term field experiments showed that SOC stock responses to straw return were greater than that of mineral fertilizers alone. Black soils with higher initial SOC stocks also had lower SOC stock increases than did soils with lower initial SOC stocks (fluvo-aquic and loessial soils) following applications of nitrogen-phosphorous-potassium (NPK) fertilizer and NPK+S (straw). Soil C stocks under the NPK and NPK+S treatments increased in the more-than-20-year duration period, while significant SOC stock increases in the NP and NP+S treatment groups were limited to the 11- to 20-year period. Annual crop productivity was higher in double-cropped wheat and maize under all fertilization treatments, including control (no fertilization), than in the single-crop systems (wheat or maize). Also, the annual soil sequestration rates and annual straw C inputs of the treatments with straw re -turn (NP+S and NPK+S) were significantly positively related. Moreover, initial SOC stocks and SOC sequestration rates of those treatments were highly negatively cor -related. Thus, long-term straw return integrated with mineral fertilization in upland wheat and maize croplands leads to increased crop yields and SOC stocks. However, those effects of straw return are highly dependent on fertilizer management, crop -ping system, soil type, duration period, and the initial SOC content.KEYWORDScarbon sequestration, crop yield, cropping system, experiment duration, long-term experiment, meta-analysis, soil organic carbon stock, straw return    |  2687BERHANE Et Al.1 |  INTRODUCTIONGlobally, soil contains the largest carbon (C) pool of any terrestrial ecosystem, and soil organic carbon (SOC) is one of the most important C storage pools. The SOC pool represents a dynamic equilibrium of C gains and losses. Even small changes in SOC may potentially add up to significant changes in large-scale C cycling (Fang, Piao, & Zhao, 2001). In recent years, a number of studies and countries have paid attention to C sequestration and possibilities for mitigating SOC loss by optimiz -ing appropriate crop rotation, proper application rates for organic and inorganic fertilizers, conservation tillage, and integrated soil fertility management (Srinivasarao et al., 2012; West & Post, 2002).Increasing the accumulation of organic C in soils is a crucial challenge, both for soil fertility and for climate change mitigation (Gong, Hu, Wang, Gong, & Ran, 2008; Lu et al., 2009; Wang, Qiu, et al., 2008). The dynam -ics of SOC stocks and the role that the soil may play in long-term accumu -lation and sequestration of atmospheric CO2 are of incredible concern because of their great potential for climate change mitigation, sustain -ability of crop productivity, and soil fertility (Kirchmann, Haberhauer, Kandeler, Sessitsch, & Gerzabek, 2004; Srinivasarao et al., 2012).With a yield of 1.04 billion tons, China has a huge amount of crop straw, almost one-third of the global production in 2015 (Li, Cao, et al., 2017). But, China's croplands have relatively low SOC content because of their long cultivation history, low straw return rates (used instead as fuel and animal feed and burnt in fields), and other losses. Since abundant nutrients remain in crop residue (e.g., phosphorus [P], nitrogen [N], potassium [K]), intensified crop residue manage -ment in farmland helps maintain soil nutrient balance and soil qual -ity and promotes soil microbial biomass and by-products (Kumar & Goh, 2000). Also, China now produces and consumes more chemical fertilizer than any other country (Sun et al., 2012). Consequently, the overuse of chemical synthetic fertilizers, coupled with straw re -moval, have led to soil quality degradation and heavy, adverse agri -cultural impacts (Liu & Diamond, 2005).For example, a meta-analysis by Zhao, Sun, et al. (2015) deter -mined that, compared with straw removal, incorporation of maize, wheat, and rice residues in Chinese croplands could increase soil C storage an average of 12%. Likewise, Wang et al. (2018) reported 5.7% higher SOC stock with straw addition compared to no straw addition after a 33-year-long experiment. Previous research has also shown that cropping duration has an influence: consistent straw return boosts SOC accumulation in early years, but that ef -fect decreases after a decade. Liu, Lu, Cui, Li, and Fang (2014) re -ported that straw return enhanced SOC sequestration in a trial site during the first 3 years, but that effect was insignificant in the fol -lowing 15 years. However, different results have also been reported (Pittelkow et al., 2015), possibly due to various ecological conditions, land management approaches, and soil types.Cropping systems may play a critical role in the change of SOC stocks by influencing the balance between C inputs through lit -ter additions and C losses through decomposition (Huang, Sun, & Zhang, 2012). Double and triple cropping systems are the principal cropping systems in China, and they have severely degraded China's agriculture (Dikgwatlhe, Chen, Lai, Zhang, & Chen, 2014). Therefore, while incorporation of crop straw into soil can be beneficial, it must be done immediately after harvest because straw's slow biodegra -dation can lead to unfavorable effects, such as undegraded straw interfering with subsequent crop growth, thus disrupting traditional crop management (Li, Dai, Dai, & Dong, 2018). Wang et al. (2018), in a long-term experiment using a double-cropping system in which straw was returned to the soil along with nitrogen-phosphorous-  potassium (NPK+S), found that the SOC stock in the NPK+S treatment was 5.7% greater than with mineral NPK alone. However, in a single-maize cropping system, they found that SOC in the NPK+S treatment was not significantly different than that in the NPK treatment.Previous studies have assessed changes in SOC stocks in Chinese soils and have focused mainly on single fertilizer management (Ji, Zhao, Li, Ma, & Wang, 2016); a specific crop (Tian et al., 2015); or a single-cropping system, particular duration period, and one soil type (Zha et al., 2015). However, uncertainties about the long-term ef -fects of straw return on SOC stocks still exist. Therefore, additional factors, such as cultivation duration, soil types, cropping systems, and initial SOC levels, are critically needed to explain why certain soil C pools react differently to straw return.Based on the uncertainties and variable reactions of SOC stocks to straw return under various management practices studied in an array of single investigations, we conducted a meta-analysis of SOC stock changes based on data obtained from long-term straw return and fertilizer management studies conducted in North China up -land areas that grow wheat and maize crops. A meta-analysis is an effective statistical method to quantitatively summarize the results of numerous individual and independent studies and to draw general conclusions at regional and global scales to estimate the direction and magnitude of a treatment effect (Guo & Gifford, 2002). Therefore, the main objectives of this study were to (a) quantify the changes in SOC stocks under various fertilizer treatments and straw return, in differ -ent cropping durations, soil types, and cropping systems in 0–20 cm of the top soil; (b) compare crop yields in long-term fertilizer and straw return treatments; and (c) establish the relationships of SOC seques -tration rates with the initial SOC stocks and annual straw C inputs.2 |  MATERIALS AND METHODS2.1  | Data collectionWe used keywords related to SOC stock or SOC content in farm -lands using different fertilizer types and straw return to search peer-  reviewed, English research articles available on Internet databases at the Northwest A&F University online library (http://www.scien  cedir  ect.com, http://link.sprin  ger.com, http://apps.webof  knowl  edge.com). To be included in the meta-analysis, a study had to meet the following criteria (Appendix S1): (a) Initial and final SOC content or stock with known years the study started and ended must be provided in the publication. (b) The work must have been published in peer-reviewed publications and not in conference proceedings or books. (c) The study must have been a field  13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2688  |    BERHANE Et Al.experiment and not a pot experiment or survey study. (d) The soil sam -pling depth must have been 0–20 cm but, in order to increase the study count, we included a few papers examining soil depths of 0–30 cm. (e) The experiment must have included at least one of the following treat -ments: Control (no fertilization [CK]); mineral NP or NPK fertilizers; min -eral NP+S or NPK+S; and, to see the effect of fertilizer types, mineral NPK plus manure (NPK+M) was optional. Only those long-term studies that were conducted on upland fields in North China and that used con -ventional tillage practices were included in our analyses.We compared the SOC response to straw and fertilizer manage  -ment regimens among different cropping systems, soil types, and cropping durations. Cropping systems were categorized as annual double-cropped winter wheat–summer maize (DC), single-crop sum -mer maize (SM), and single-crop winter wheat (SW). Experimental sites were categorized into following three soil types according to both the general soil classification of China and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations classification (in pa -rentheses): black soils (Luvic Phaeozems), fluvo-aquic soils (Calcaric Cambisols), and loessial soils (Calcaric Regosols). Cropping duration was categorized into four intervals, namely 1–5, 6–10, 11–20, and greater than 20 years, with the minimum and maximum durations being 1 and 33  years, respectively. Necessary data from experimen -tal sites, SOC content or stock, soil bulk density, soil sampling depth, cropping duration, cropping system, soil type, and fertilization  regimens were obtained from texts and tables of the publications. If data were expressed as figures or charts, number values were  extracted using GetData Graph Digitizer Version 2.26 (S. Federov).Accordingly, we collected 58 published articles with 268 and 139 observations for SOC stock and crop yield, respectively. About 54 of them contained complete SOC data and partial crop yield data, and the remaining four were articles we included for crop yield data only. The details of the selected studies and their references are in Appendices S2, S3, and S4 and site locations are in Figure 1. In addition, crop yields in the corresponding long-term experimental sites were collected to qualitatively evaluate the relationships be -tween SOC stocks at 0–20 cm topsoil depth and crop yields after straw return and various fertilizer treatments. Using national average carbon concentrations (National Center for Agricultural Technology Service [NCATS], 1994), we converted aboveground straw into an equivalent amount of carbon, assuming 0.4 kg C/kg wheat or maize.Studies in a meta-analysis are assumed to be independent (Gurevitch & Hedges, 1999). Therefore, to reduce dependency of observations, if any study contained duplicate results in different years for the same field plots, we included only the latest sampling date in our analysis (except for testing cropping duration effects). Fertilizer application rates and returned straw quantities were not considered in our study because of large variations in the amounts and types of fertilizer and straw used. Additionally, temperature and precipitation were not considered because of their collinearity with cropping systems. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis using CK, NP, NPK, NP+S, NPK+S, and NPK+M treatments, but only used the NPK+M treatment to compare SOC stock changes between different fertilizer treatments, because of a paucity of data for the other variables.2.2 | Data analysisThe following equation was used to convert SOC concentra -tion in the top 20  cm soil depth to SOC stock (Yang, Mohammat, Feng, Zhou, & Fang, 2007):where SOCS is soil organic C stock (Mg  C/ha) and SOCC is soil organic C concentration (g C/kg), BD is soil bulk density (g/cm3), and D is the (1) SOCS=SOCC×BD×D×10−1,FIGURE 1 Map of China and its provinces with locations of selected long-term experimental sites in North China [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com] 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2689BERHANE Et Al.measured depth of soil (cm). If a study reported soil organic matter, it was converted to SOC concentration using the coefficient 0.58.BD is a key parameter used in determining farmland SOC stocks. Unfortunately, when experimental studies did not report BD values, we had to use the following equation, developed by Song, Li, Pan, and Zhang (2005) for upland soils, to estimate BD for those sites:Because BD changed due to long-term fertilizer use, we also calculated initial and final BDs using initial and final SOCC, respectively, for each treatment in those experimental sites, if it was not provided in the  pertinent publications.The carbon sequestration rate (CSR, Mg  C ha−1 year−1) was calcu -lated using the following equation:where SOCf and SOCi are the mean SOC storage during the final year and in the initial year, respectively, of a specific treatment; and t  (year) is the duration of the experiment.2.3 | Meta-analysisGiven initial SOC stocks, studies with data including changes to SOC stocks with different fertilizer treatments, cropping systems, soil types, and experimental durations were analyzed using meta-analysis. The natural log of response ratio ( R+) was employed as effect size (Sanderman & Baldock, 2010). So, for each paired ob -servation of SOC stocks at the initial and final experimental stages, we calculated the mean effect size using the following formula (Hedges, Gurevich, & Curtis, 1999).where Xf is the mean SOC stock (Mg C/ha) at the final stage, and Xi is mean SOC stock at the initial stage of each treatment.To be easily understandable, we reported the results as percentage change, where these changes, influenced by various fertilizer treatments during long-term investigations, were calculated either by ( R+ − 1) × 100% or with the following formula. Positive-percentage changes indicate an increase in SOC stocks, while negative values indicate a decrease.Means, standard deviations or standard errors, and the num -ber of replicates are required for meta-analysis (Hedges et al., 1999; Luo, Hui, & Zhang, 2006), but in most of the studies we used, the standard deviations or standard errors that would allow us to calculate sample variances were not provided. Therefore, in order to include as many studies as possible, we used un-weighted meta-analysis. For that, the bootstrap resampling technique on MetaWin Version 2.1.4 (Rosenberg Software, Arizona State University) was used to generate bias-corrected 95% confidence intervals for each mean effect size (Adams, Gurevich, & Rosenberg, 1997). Means of the effect sizes of initial SOC stocks compared to means of their initial levels were considered significant if their 95% confidence intervals did not overlap zero (Huang et al., 2012; Zhao, Sun, et al., 2015).2.4 | Statistical analysisWe used SPSS 22.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc.) for all statistical analy -ses and, before analyzing the data set, we performed data quality control and removed outliers. One-way analysis of variance was used to evaluate the effects that each long-term fertilizer regimen and cropping system had on crop yields and to compare the effects of cropping duration, soil type, cropping system, and fertilizers on SOC stock response ratios between treatments during long-term experiments. Linear regressions and logarithmic functions were used to compare the relationships between straw carbon input and SOC sequestration rates, and between initial SOC stocks and SOC sequestration rates.3 |  RESULTS3.1  | Crop yields in different cropping systemsIn the SM cropping system, mean annual maize yield over time and under different fertilizer regimens were not significantly differ -ent ( p > .05) between the NP, NPK+S, NP+S, and NPK treatments. Except for NP, all treatments had significantly higher yields ( p < .05) than did CK (Figure 2a). The additional straw return along with min -eral fertilizers in the SM cropping system did not affect the result relative to mineral fertilizer applications alone.In the SW cropping system, there was no difference between the average annual wheat yields of the NPK and NPK+S treatment groups, indicating that straw addition did not affect grain yield in this cropping system (Figure 2a). We did not include the other fertilizer treatments used in this cropping system because of too few avail -able observations or data.In the DC system, unfertilized (CK) maize had significantly lower yields than maize in all other fertilizer treatments. But among fertil -izer treatments, mean maize yields were not significantly different between NP+S, NPK, and NPK+S treatment groups. However, while there was a significant difference between yields in the maize NP and CK treatment groups, maize yield with the addition of straw in the NP+S treatment group was significantly greater than that with NP alone (Figure 2b). In the DC system, wheat yield differences be -tween the NPK and NPK+S treatment groups were nonsignificant, but they were significantly higher than yields in the NP+S, NP, and (2)BD=1.377 ×Exp/parenleft.s1−0.0048 ×SOCC/parenright.s1.(3)CSR=/parenleft.s1SOCf−SOCi/parenright.s1t,(4) lnR+=ln/parenleft.s1Xf∕Xi/parenright.s1,(5) %ΔSOC stock =/bracketleft.s4SOCf−SOCiSOCi/bracketright.s4×100. 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2690  |    BERHANE Et Al.CK treatment groups. However, yields in the NPK and NP+S treat -ment groups were not markedly different (Figure 2b). In summary, only maize yield under NP fertilization in the DC system increased significantly with the addition of straw.In cropping system comparisons (Figure 2c), mean maize yields with NPK application were significantly higher in the SM than in the DC systems ( p = .047) and, likewise, between the SM and DC maize yields with the NP+S treatment ( p = .007). However, we observed no significant differences in maize yields between the SM and DC systems in the other treatment groups (CK, p = .396; NP, p = .07; NPK+S, p = .162). Mean wheat yield under the NPK+S treatment was significantly lower in the SW system than in the DC system (p = .034); however , there was no significant difference between yields in the SW and DC systems for the NPK treatment ( p = .34).Overall, annual crop productivity was significantly greater in the DC system than in the SM system, regardless of fertilization treatment except for CK and NP treatments, and also for the NPK and NPK+S treatments in the SW system (Figure 2d). In the DC sys -tem, the addition of straw clearly increased annual grain yield over both NP alone (11.1 vs. 9.2 t/ha) and NPK alone (12.9 vs. 12 t/ha).3.2 | Response ratios of SOC stocks under different fertilizer treatmentsWe estimated the average response ratios of SOC stock to different long-term fertilizer treatments (Figure 3). The percentage change of SOC stock for the CK and NP treatments was 1% and 4%, respectively, indicating no significant change in SOC storage between the begin -ning and the end of long-term experiments (95% bootstrap confi -dence intervals of means overlap zero in Figure 3). For the NP+S, NPK, NPK+S, and NPK+M treatments, mean SOC stock changes were 16%, 16%, 31%, and 55%, respectively, thus showing a significant increase in SOC storage, compared to initial SOC stocks, by the end of the experiments.FIGURE 2 Comparisons of means ( SE) of crop yields in different cropping systems (SM/SW and DC) and different fertilizer treatments (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw). (a) Different fertilizer treatments of SM (single-crop maize) and SW (single-crop wheat). (b) Different fertilizer treatments of double-crop (DC) winter wheat and summer maize. Between columns, means with different letters (upper case for wheat and lower case for maize) in (a) and (b) are significantly different (one-way ANOVA, p < .05). (c) Comparisons of yields for each crop in each cropping system and under various fertilizer treatments. Wheat means with different letters were significantly different and maize means with different letters were significantly different (one-way ANOVAs, p < .05). (d) Comparisons of annual total yields for each cropping system under each experimental treatment. Means with different letters were significantly different (one-way ANOVAs, p < .05). N.A., no available dataFIGURE 3 Increases in soil organic carbon (SOC) stock (mean, 95% confidence interval) between the beginning (0) and the end of experiments using different fertilizer treatments (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw; NPK+M, NPK plus manure). ( n), number of input data points 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2691BERHANE Et Al.Over all treatments, NPK+M, followed by NPK+S, had signifi -cantly higher increases in SOC storage than did the other treat -ments ( p < . 0 5 ) .  H o w e v e r ,  t h e r e  w a s  n o  s i g n i f i c a n t  d i f f e r e n c e  between the NP+S and NPK treatments ( p > .05), and NP and CK had the lowest and no responses, respectively, compared to the other treatments. Adding straw affected SOC level changes sig -nificantly, compared to SOC changes from NP and NPK fertilizer treatments alone ( p < .05).3.3 | Response ratios of SOC stocks in different soil typesCompared to initial levels, SOC stock levels in black soils after the NPK and NPK+S treatments increased significantly (11%, 95% CI [0.1, 0.23]) and (5%, 95% CI [0.005, 0.1], respectively, Figure 4). For fluvo-aquic soils, the responses under both NP and NP+S treat -ments were nonsignificant, with a 3% decrease following the CK treatment. However, SOC stock changes were significantly higher in the NPK (18%, 95% CI [0.12, 0.19]) and NPK+S treatments (35%, 95% CI [0.21, 0.35]) compared to initial SOC levels. Also, the mean SOC stock change following the NPK+S treatment was significantly higher than all other treatments ( p < .05). Next, the SOC stock levels in loessial soils increased significantly, relative to initial levels, fol -lowing NPK (21%), NP+S (20%), and NPK+S (34%) treatments, but not significantly in the CK (9.5%) and NP treatments (3.5%). The SOC stock increase following the NPK+S treatment was significantly higher than the increases following the NP and CK treatments, but not significantly different than the changes under the NPK and NP+S treatments ( p > .05). Finally, black soils were not responded significantly to CK (0.3%) and NP (6%) treatments relative to initial SOC level. While NP+S treatment for black soils was not reported in our results due to limited data points.Following both the NPK and NPK+S treatments, we observed no significant difference in SOC stock changes between fluvo-aquic and loessial soils ( p > .05), and black soil had a significantly lower re -sponse ratio than the other soils ( p < .05) following those treatments. Meanwhile, loessial soil following the NP+S treatment responded sig -nificantly relative to their initial SOC levels (Figure 4). However, there were no significant differences between fluvo-aquic and loessial soils under all fertilizer treatments, except that loessial soil had greater changes in SOC stock following the NP+S treatment than did the flu -vo-aquic soil. In both black and fluvo-aquic soils, straw added to the NPK treatments (NPK+S) resulted in greater SOC stock increases than in the NPK treatment alone (11% vs. 5% and 35% vs. 18% for black and fluvo-aquic soils, respectively). However, we saw no significant effects from straw addition in loessial soil. Overall, the SOC stock response ratios in black soil were lower than those of the other soil types.3.4 | SOC stock response in different cropping systemsFollowing both the CK and NP treatments, we observed no signifi -cant changes in SOC stocks in both DC and SM systems (significance  occurs when confidence intervals do not overlap zero, Figure 5). FIGURE 4 SOC (soil organic carbon) stock changes (mean, 95% confidence interval) under different fertilizer treatments (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw) in major soil types. Due to limited data, changes in the NP+S group in black soil was not used. The vertical-dashed line indicates the SOC levels’ starting points before treatments began. Sample sizes are next to each barFIGURE 5 SOC (soil organic carbon) stock changes from initial levels in each fertilizer treatment in the three cropping systems. DC, double-cropped summer maize–winter wheat; N.A., no available data; SM, single-crop maize; SW, single-crop winter wheat. See the legend in Figure 2 for the definition of the three cropping systems and the five fertilizer treatments. The bars represent 95% confidence intervals. The sample size for each cropping system is shown next to the bar 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2692  |    BERHANE Et Al.Following the NPK treatment, the SOC response ratios of two crop -ping systems, SM and DC, increased significantly (6% and 21%, re -spectively) compared to their initial levels. But, for this treatment the increase in the SW system (20%) was nonsignificant relative to its initial SOC level. Overall, both the SW and DC systems had  significantly greater increases than did the SM cropping system in NPK ( p < .05). Compared to the initial levels in the NP+S treatment, mean SOC response ratios increased significantly in both the SM and DC systems (10%, 95% CI [0.05, 0.13] and 18%, 95% CI [0.012, 0.25], respectively) but there was no significant difference be -tween those cropping systems ( p > .05). For the NPK+S treatment, response ratios increased significantly compared to initial levels in the SM (14%, 95% CI [0.05, 0.2]) and DC (38%, 95% CI [0.22, 0.37]) systems, but the response in the SW system (15%) was nonsignifi -cant (Figure 5).In contrast, response ratios in the DC system were significantly higher than those in the SM system for both NPK and NPK+S treat -ments, with a 21% increase in the DC system and a 6% increase in the SM system following the NPK treatment ( p = .001), and a 38% increase in the DC system and a 14% increase in the SM system for the NPK+S treatment ( p = .027). However, SOC stock responses to the NPK treatment in the DC and SW systems were similar (21% and 20%, respectively), while the responses to the NPK+S treatment in the DC system increased more (38%) than it did in the SW system (15%), but the difference was not significant between the cropping systems. Because the SW system had small sample sizes, resulting in very large confidence intervals, the comparisons with that system were not as precise as they would have been with a larger sample. In the DC system, straw added to chemical fertilizer treatments re -sulted in greater SOC stock response increases than those following chemical fertilizer treatments alone: NP+S was markedly greater than NP alone (18% vs. 5%, p > .05) and NPK+S was significantly greater than NPK alone (38% vs. 21%, p < .01). However, in the SM system, only the NP+S treatment was significantly higher than NP (10% vs. about 1%, p < .05), and the SW system did not respond sig -nificantly to added straw (NPK+S treatment vs. the NPK treatment, p > .05).3.5 | Effect of experiment durations on SOC stocksWe grouped each study's experimental periods into four duration ranges based on the amount of time that each study was con -ducted and then compared the response ratios of SOC stocks for each fertilizer treatment in each duration. In the CK, NP, and NP+S treatments, most duration groups showed nonsignificant SOC stock increases (Figure 6). The groups with significant increases included under 11- to 20-year groups in the NP (22%) and NP+S (53%) treatments, but in longer periods more-than-20  year groups lowered to 4% and 13%, respectively, in NP and NP+S. Moreover, in CK SOC increases were significantly greater than initial levels in the 1- to 5-year duration group (95% confidence intervals did not overlap zero).Under the NPK treatment, response ratios increased signifi -cantly compared to initial levels (12% [1–5  years], 10% [6–10  years], 14% [11–20  years], and 22% [more-than-20  years]), but we  observed no significant differences between the duration groups. Under the NPK+S treatment, the response ratios in three groups (6–10, 11–20, and more-than-20  years) increased significantly (22%, 29%, and 63%, respectively) compared to their initial levels. The changes between duration groups in the NPK+S and NPK treatments were significantly higher in the more-than-20-year group than in the 1- to 5-, 6- to 10-, and 11- to 20-year groups ( p < .05) but not signifi -cantly different between the 1- to 5-, 6- to 10-, and 11- to 20-year groups. We observed no soil C saturation trends in any of the crop -ping durations in both the NPK and NPK+S treatments, thus indi -cating that carbon sequestration may have occurred in the fields of the studies with the longest duration (more-than-20 years). However, SOC stock changes increased in the 11- to 20-year dura -tion group for both the NP and NP+S treatments but decreased in the more-than-20-years duration group. Additionally, only in the 1- to 5-year duration group was the SOC stock response in the NP+S treatment significantly greater than that in the NP treatment alone (p < .01), while the NPK +S treatment group's SOC stock increase was significantly greater than that of the NPK treatment group in the 11- to 20-year duration group ( p < .05), but not in the other  duration groups (Figure 6).3.6 | Relationships between SOC sequestration rates and annual C inputs from strawWhen measuring straw C inputs to soils, we examined only the estimated aboveground C inputs retained by the soil and those FIGURE 6 Changes in SOC (soil organic carbon) stocks from their initial levels (0) under different fertilizer treatments (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw) and across four experimental durations (mean, 95% confidence interval). The sample size for each duration range is shown next to the bar. N.A., no available data 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2693BERHANE Et Al.amounts ranged from 0.05 to 7.36 Mg C ha−1 year−1 and 0.45 to 6.36 Mg C ha−1 year−1 i n  the  NP K + S  and  NP + S  tr ea tmen ts,  r e -spectively. In examining the long-term experiments, we observed significantly positive linear relationships between annual soil C se-questration rates and the annual straw carbon inputs to the soils experiencing both straw addition treatments: NP+S (SOC sequestra -tion rate = 0.13 × annual straw C input + 0.004) and NPK+S treat -ments (SOC sequestration rate = 0.16 × annual straw C input + 0.08; Figure 7). This implies that the soil in those treatments still had the capacity to store external carbon. Similar linear relationships were detected in meta-analyses (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, & Lu, 2015; Zhao, Sun, et al., 2015) and in observations from Northwest China (Shuo et al., 2016). Moreover, the slope of the linear equation was lower for NP+S (0.17) than for NPK+S (0.31), thus demonstrating that about 17% and 31%, respectively, of annual straw C input into the soil was transformed to SOC. We attributed those SOC seques -tration increases to the C supplied by the returned straw.4 |  DISCUSSION4.1  | Straw and fertilizer management effects on SOC stocksOur meta-analysis specifically examined multiple year observations of upland grain crops of northern China, focusing on winter wheat and summer maize. However, differing sample sizes may have af -fected significance levels, especially when 95% confidence intervals of small sample sizes are much wider than those derived from large sample sizes, an effect experienced in similar studies (Han, Zhang, Wang, Sun, & Huang, 2016; Tian et al., 2015). With that said, we found that NP+S, NPK, NPK+S, and NPK+M treatments significantly increased SOC sequestration, thus indicating that adequate fertiliza -tion with balanced chemical and organic fertilizers sequestered SOC better than did unbalanced fertilizers (NP) and no fertilization (CK) during long-term experiments (1–33 years). Potassium is an essen -tial plant nutrient, second in importance only to N, that increases crop yield, improves crop quality, and is required in large amounts by plants for proper growth. In our results, crops grown with added K fertilizer produced more biomass that was returned to the soil than did crops grown without K fertilizer. Therefore, SOC levels increased more in those soils that received K fertilizer than in those that did not. The largest SOC increases, NPK+M (55%) followed by NPK+S (31%; Figure 3), were likely associated with the added C input of long-  term manure and straw additions. Indeed, a global meta-analysis conducted by Han et al. (2016) revealed that balanced chemical fertilizers combined with manure or straw resulted in greater SOC stocks than with chemical fertilizers alone. A similar result was re-ported by Liang et al. (2019), and Han et al. (2016) claimed that a substantial C sequestration potential of applying mineral fertilizer with straw and with manure is very important for either improving or maintaining current SOC stocks across all agro-ecosystems. Liu et al. (2010) also reported that manure application in combination with mineral fertilizers more effectively improves soil organic mat -ter than do mineral fertilizers alone. Synthetic fertilizers integrated with manure (e.g., NPK+M) further mediated adverse effects of both soil acidification and reduction in base saturation caused by chemi -cal fertilizer inputs alone (Zeng et al., 2017). Thus, supplying enough nutrients to soil through organic fertilizers is preferred for both soil fertility improvement and C sequestration enhancement.Soil nutrients are depleted gradually during continuous cropping with no fertilizer, which affects SOC dynamics and stability (Banger, Kukal, Toor, Sudhir, & Hanumanthraju, 2009; Zhang et al., 2010). We determined that no fertilizer application (CK) and application of NP over the long-term did not significantly change SOC stocks (their 95% confidence intervals overlapped zero), as the stocks stayed at initial levels (Figure 3). This static result in the CK group was likely due to relatively high-atmospheric N deposition (Wang, Zhang, et al., 2008). Later, Zha et al. (2015) showed, in a 19-year experiment without fer -tilizer, that SOC content decreased by 7%. The difference between our analysis and that finding may be because only one soil type  (fulvo-aquic) in that small-scale study with only one cropping sys -tem (wheat–maize cropping system) was examined versus our study, which averaged results of different soil types (black, fluvo-aquic, and loessial) and different cropping systems (SM, SW, and DC). Our result is supported by Chen, Zhao, Feng, Li, and Sun (2015) who reported that long-term unfertilized soils maintain their initial SOC content. Incorporating organic matter (e.g., crop stubble and root biomass) FIGURE 7 Relationships between annual straw carbon (C) inputs and annual SOC (soil organic carbon) sequestration rates in the (NP+S, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer plus straw; NPK+S, NP plus potassium plus straw) treatments of different studies using various crop types [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com] 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2694  |    BERHANE Et Al.into agricultural soils compensates for SOC losses through decompo -sition, especially with double cropping every year. Thus, soil requires organic C input to increase SOC content.Our analysis also found that long-term addition of straw, along with inorganic fertilizers, significantly increased SOC stocks over that of inorganic fertilizer applications alone. That is, compared to their ini -tial SOC stock levels, NPK+S and NP+S treatment groups had greater increases in SOC stocks (31% and 16%, respectively) than did the NPK and NP treatment groups (16% and a negligible percent, respectively). The same increasing effect was observed in a meta-analysis conducted on long-term paddy crops (Tian et al., 2015) in which the NPK+S treat -ment group sequestered about 1.9 times more SOC than did the NPK group. Because mineral fertilizers may enrich C inputs only through increasing root and stubble biomass, they did not directly contribute organic matter into the soil like straw does. Straw addition provides large amounts of organic C to cropland soils, thereby promoting soil microbial biomass and activities, hence increasing soil organic matter (Lal, Follett, Stewart, & Kimble, 2007). Therefore, we concluded that the addition of crop residues results in greater C storage than does the application of mineral fertilizers alone.A global scale meta-analysis (Han et al., 2016) and observations from other studies conducted in upland areas of central China (Zha et al., 2015) reported SOC increases following straw incorporation. Those studies had broad differences in climate, soil type, study dura -tion, and rotation systems, yet the results of SOC increases following straw addition fell in a narrow range (19.4%–25.2%, Table 1). The results from our study using data from upland areas of North China agreed with the above studies since the relative change of SOC (23.5%) with long-term straw incorporation fell within the range of those studies (Figure 3, Table 1). In contrast, relative increases in SOC stocks with straw addition in our study were slightly lower than those of studies conducted in sub-Saharan croplands (Powlson, Stirling, Thierfelder, White, & Jat, 2016) and in China (Zhang et al., 2016) in which the combined range of SOC increases was 26%–38%. However, our observed increases were greater than those found by a global scale meta-analysis of upland areas (Liu et al., 2014), a meta-analysis conducted on a national scale of Chinese croplands (Zhao, Sun, et al., 2015), and one of European and North American upland soils (Powlson, Glendining, Coleman, & Whitmore, 2011), with a combined range of 11%–13.3% (Table 1). The differences between those studies and ours were probably due to variations in crop types (from winter wheat in Europe and North America to rice, wheat, and maize in sub-Saharan Africa to winter wheat and sum -mer maize in our study), durations (6–56 years in Europe and North America, 20–30 years in China, and 5.7 years in sub-Saharan Africa vs. 1–33 years in our study), coverage of the study (from global and national scale meta-analyses to regional meta-analysis and single-site studies), and climatic conditions of the various sites (Han et al., 2016; Liu et al., 2014; Powlson et al., 2011, 2016; Zha et al., 2015; Zhang et al., 2016; Zhao, Sun, et al., 2015). This array of differing variables can produce results that disagree with one another, including the amounts that SOC increases due to straw addition. So, our study's conclusions suggest that we need to consider many factors that con -tribute to variations in outcomes (e.g., crop rotation, study duration, soil type, initial C concentrations, and climatic conditions) in future studies. Furthermore, another study (Reicosky et al., 2002) also found no increases in SOC stock after long-term straw returns, and a study in North China by Wang et al. (2018) demonstrated that long-term straw application maintained, and sometimes increased, SOC compared to the initial SOC level. Perhaps, soil carbon sequestration is limited by certain aspects of initial soil quality associated with low inputs of C, initial SOC content, pH, or the total carbon and nitrogen ratios (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, Yang, et al., 2015). In addition, we observed significant linear relationships between straw C inputs and SOC sequestration rates (Figure 7), indicating that the increase in SOC stocks in the straw-added treatments was directly correlated with the amount of straw C inputs to the soil.Incorporation of crop residue is not only a major source of C input, but it also helps to control air pollution by returning carbon-based material into the soil rather than burning it and sending it into the Study regionDuration (years)Land use typeRelative change  of SOC stock (%) ReferenceGlobal 10.2 Cropland 19.4 Han et al. (2016)Short to long-termUpland 13.3 Liu et al. (2014)China Short to long-termCropland 12 Zhao, Sun, et al. (2015)20–30 Cropland 26–38 Zhang et al. (2016)Sub-Saharan Africa 5.7 Cropland 34.2 Powlson et al. (2016)Europe and North America6–56 Upland 11 Powlson et al. (2011)Central China 19 Upland 25.2 Zha et al. (2015)North China Short to long-term (12.8)Upland 23.5 This studyTABLE 1 Studies of soil organic carbon (SOC) changes with straw addition 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2695BERHANE Et Al.atmosphere. As chemical fertilizers are the main source of nutrients used for crops in China, their excessive use with a relatively low ef -ficiency contributes to environmental problems (Zhang, Wu, & Dai, 2004). Many findings that agreed with our results also concluded that the application of organic materials, combined with chemical fertil -izer, is the best approach for increasing SOC content (Meng, Ding, & Cai, 2005; Wang, Li, & Qiu, 2004). Farm management practices greatly influence biomass productivity by changing SOC content, thus influencing crop yield while possibly increasing atmospheric CO2 concentrations, which leads to climate change (Wang, Qiu, Tang, Li, & Li, 2007). Generally, the effect of chemical fertilizers combined with straw not only decreases the required amounts of chemical fertiliz -ers, but also improves SOC content and, by extension, contributes to very efficient and environmentally friendly farm management. Thus, carbon sequestration could be attained through long-term crop resi -due application or straw return, especially in our study area in China.4.2 | Response ratios of SOC stocks in different soil typesChanges in SOC stock levels probably depend on initial levels in farmlands (Stewart, Paustian, Conant, Plane, & Six, 2007). In our meta-analysis, we observed a lower SOC stock response ratio in the long-term duration experiments (range 1–33  years) in cropland soils that had greater initial SOC stocks, regardless of soil types. Black soils had the highest initial SOC stock in our results (Figure 8); how -ever, its SOC stock response ratio was the lowest of the three soils measured in most of the fertilizer treatments (Figure 4). This is con -sistent with the result of a meta-analysis by Li, Shi, et al. (2017) of a long-term experiment looking at fertilizer treatments and different upland and paddy (rice fields) soil types. It shows that, for both up -land and paddy fields, SOC stock change depends on the initial SOC stock. In our study, higher response ratios in fluvo-aquic and loessial soils (Figure 4) may be attributed to initial SOC stock levels (22.5 and 26.2 Mg C/ha, respectively), which were lower than those of black soils (35.1 Mg C/ha). The lower the initial C content, the farther a soil is from C saturation level (Stewart et al., 2007).In addition, we used a logarithmic function to describe the rela -tionship between annual SOC sequestration rates and initial C stocks (Figure 9). SOC sequestration rates in all treatments were weak, with R2 ranging from .11 to .19, but significantly negatively correlated with initial SOC stock amounts, except in the NP+S treatment in which there was a positive, but weak and nonsignificant, correlation. These results were mainly due to large differences in C sequestration rates caused by differences in C inputs, fertilizer rates and types, dura -tions of fertilizer regime, and cropping systems (Appendix S2). A meta-analysis by Li, Shi, et al. (2017) revealed a significant negative correlation between SOC sequestration rates and initial SOC stocks in upland soils planted in maize and wheat and in paddy soils planted in rice. However, another meta-analysis in China paddy soils using single-cropped rice, double-cropped rice, and double-cropped rice–wheat found no apparent relationship (Tian et al., 2015). The differ -ences in similar meta-analyses may be due to climatic conditions and cropping system variations between upland and paddy soils, espe -cially since decomposition in anaerobic paddy soils is low, even if ini -tial SOC contents are high (Li, Shi, et al., 2017). Moreover, initial SOC levels probably control the sequestration of soil C in farmlands (Sun, Huang, Zhang, & Yu, 2010). Initial soil C concentrations influence the stabilization of added C, and perhaps soils having lesser C stocks have the greatest potential and ability to sequester C because they are farther from their saturation levels than are soils with greater C stocks (Stewart, Puastian, Conant, Plane, & Six, 2008). Thus, SOC sequestration rates will likely depend on initial SOC stocks.4.3 | Crop rotation systems, SOC stocks, and crop yieldsIn this study, greater SOC sequestration occurred in all cropping sys -tems under the NPK, NP+S, and NPK+S treatments than in the CK and NP treatments (Figure 5), mostly because of greater C inputs resulting from higher crop productivity in the fields treated with adequate fertilizer and straw return (Mandal et al., 2007). This indi -cates that soils that received sufficient nutrients from either fertiliz -ers or both fertilizers and straw return experienced enhanced SOC changes, due mainly to greater C inputs. These inputs arose from crop residues and root-related C, and from straw addition resulting from higher crop productivity in the NPK, NP+S, and NPK+S treatments than in the CK and NP treatments. In comparison, SOC changes in the DC system were significantly higher than those in the SM sys -tem, compared to their initial levels, using both NPK and NPK+S fer -tilization, with increases of 21% in DC versus 6% in the SM systems FIGURE 8 Initial SOC (soil organic carbon) stocks (Mg C/ha) in the top 20 cm of soil in the selected studies of major agricultural soil types in North China. The thick lines within the boxes represent medians. Vertical bars show minimum and maximum values and * and ° denote outliers. Numbers in parentheses are numbers of input data points and the bars with different letters indicate significant differences (one-way ANOVA, p < .05) [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com] 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2696  |    BERHANE Et Al.under the NPK treatment ( p = .001), and up 38% in DC versus 14% in the SM systems under the NPK+S treatment ( p = .027). This can be partially explained by the lower whole-year crop productivity and less plant-derived C input in a single-cropping system (Huang et al., 2012). Moreover, under NPK treatments, the SW system response was significantly higher than that of the SM system, but nonsignifi -cant under the NPK+S treatment. This indicates that SM cropping re -sponds less to SOC than do the other cropping systems. Wang et al. (2018) compared data from different experimental sites in northeast China and suggested that the continuous, single-cropping maize sys -tem is less efficient at sequestering C from added C inputs than are systems that include two crops per year. Single cropping provides less stored SOC, even in paddy crops, as Huang et al. (2012) found in a national scale meta-analysis of different cropping systems used in paddy fields in China. They observed lower SOC sequestration in the rice single-cropping system than in the double-cropping system using rice–wheat and rice–rice. Our result was also supported by the linear relationships between the SOC sequestration rates and the straw C inputs (Figure 7), and Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, Yang, et al. (2015) reported a significant correlation between changes in SOC and the amount of C input. This implies that SOC stock re -sponses to cropping systems, in paddies as well as in uplands, depend on the amount of C input supplied to the soil throughout the year. In addition, Mandal et al. (2007) suggested that SOC stocks could be enhanced in cropping systems that provided more C than the criti -cal value of C losses. In contrast, the SM system experienced lower SOC stock increases than did the SW system, perhaps because the decomposition rates of wheat and maize residues differ because of their different climatic conditions. The high temperatures of the maize-growing season foster a faster decomposition rate of organic materials generated by maize root systems than the decomposition rate during the cooler wheat-growing season, resulting in a lower re -tention coefficient for the maize season than for the wheat season (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, Yang, et al., 2015; Zheng et al., 2009). So, while SOC increased in both the DC and SW systems under both the NPK and NPK+S treatments, the increase for the SW system was statistically nonsignificant ( p > .05), possibly because the SW system's small sample size resulted in large confidence intervals (Gurevitch & Hedges, 1999; Han et al., 2016).Adding straw to the fertilizer regimes of the DC system clearly resulted in significantly greater SOC stock responses, compared to initial SOC levels, than those with chemical fertilizers alone. While single-cropping systems responded slightly to straw return, except in the SM system in which the SOC increase under NP+S (10%) was significantly greater than the NP treatment increase (1%). The signif -icant SOC stock increases in the DC system was most likely due to the higher annual amounts of straw returned to the soil from double crops. Therefore, both straw addition and cropping system affected SOC stock change. Because of low C inputs, single-cropping systems (SM and SW) had less stored soil C than did the DC system (Zhao, Sun, et al., 2015 in a previous meta-analysis conducted at a national level).We also examined grain yields in different fertilizer treatments and cropping systems. We found that the yields of both the wheat and maize crops in the DC system fertilized with either NPK,  FIGURE 9 Correlations between the annual soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration rates and initial SOC stocks in each of the five fertilizer treatments (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw) [Colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com] 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2697BERHANE Et Al.NP+S, or NPK+S were greater than the yields of crops with NP  fertilization and no fertilization (CK; Figure 2). Similarly, examining a wheat–maize rotation system, Zhao et al. (2014) reported lower grain yield in NP treatments compared to NP treatments combined with K fertilizer or returned straw. That yield difference was asso -ciated mostly with the essential nutrients in the balanced chemi -cal fertilizers and the returned straw compared to the insufficient nutrients in the NP and CK systems. However, we saw no yield differ  ences between treatments in the SM systems, except that the CK yield was significantly lower, even though SOC stocks varied with treatments. Partially in line with our results, Chen et al. (2015) found that all fertilizer treatments significantly enhanced crop pro -duction compared to unfertilized crops, but the yield difference be -tween fertilized treatments was not significant for both the wheat and maize crops. They suggested that inorganic fertilizers, straw, and manures, when N, P, and K are applied at equivalent rates, have similar effects on crop yields. In our meta-analysis, due to a large range in the quantities of applied fertilizer or returned straw in the selected studies, we did not consider the total amounts of nutrients applied for each treatment. Therefore, the total nutrients applied in these treatments may be similar and may have resulted in similar grain yields. When comparing cropping systems, maize yield in the SM system was significantly higher than it was in the DC system with NPK ( p < .05) and NP+S ( p < .01) applications. Most likely, pro -ductivity was lower than in a single-season system because of the moisture lost by tilling twice per year and the intensive cropping and high nutrient utilization in the DC system. However, the mean yield of wheat in the NPK+S treatment was significantly lower in the SW system (3.92 t/ha) than in the DC system (6.2 t/ha, p < .05). This difference in wheat yields may have been because the DC system benefited from two seasons, cold and warm, in which the mobiliza -tion of available nutrients from fertilizers and soils differed (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, & Lu, 2015 in a previous meta-analysis). Therefore, the higher wheat yield in the DC system might be at -tributed to two seasons of applied nutrients and tillage frequency.In the DC system, the combination of straw and chemical fertilizers resulted higher grain yields than those produced with chemical fertilizers alone: NP+S yield (11.1 t/ha) was higher than the NP yield (9.2  t/ha) and NPK+S yield (12.9  t/ha) was higher than the NPK yield (12  t/ha). These overall yield increases under straw return may have been due to additional nutrient inputs and im -provements in the soils’ biophysical and physicochemical proper -ties (Liu et al., 2014). During the past few decades, huge amounts of chemical fertilizers have been used to maximize crop yields, thus improving food security throughout the world (Savci, 2012). However, those methods can degrade soil through compaction and acidification, leading to crop yield reduction (Horrigan, Lawrence, & Walker, 2002). Use of chemical fertilizers has also decreased soil bacteria community richness and diversity and has significantly changed soil bacteria community structure (Ramirez, Craine, & Fierer, 2010; Sun et al., 2016). Similar to our results, Zhao, Jiang, et al. (2019), in their eight-consecutive-year field experiment using the wheat–maize cropping system in northwest China, observed significantly higher crop yields in a combined straw and chemical  fertilizer treatment than with no straw addition. Integrated appli -cation of chemical fertilizer and crop straw is an important field management practice that can help maintain both soil quality and productivity (Bhattacharyya, Kundu, Prakash, & Gupta, 2008; Shuo et al., 2018; Zhao, Ning, et al., 2019). It improves the phys -ical, biological, and chemical properties of the soil (e.g., porosity, moisture, and constituent substrates), thus aiding the activity and community structure of soil bacteria (Zhao, Wang, & Jia, 2015). Straw return likely produces increased plant-derived C, sequesters SOC, and, at the same time, achieves optimum crop productivity (Shuo et al., 2016). Similar to the results obtained in our study, a meta-analysis of upland and paddy crops in China compared crop yields and SOC stock changes with and without straw returns and found that long-term, continuous straw return leads to overall in -creases in both yields and SOC (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, & Lu, 2015).Average, year-round, overall crop yields were higher in the DC system under all treatments than in both the SM and SW crop -ping systems. So next, we considered the effect of cropping sys -tem on both SOC change and annual total crop yield, and found that the DC system is preferable to both single-cropping systems per year. The winter wheat–summer maize cropping system is the most common and important cropping system in the North and North-Central China Plain. Double-cropped fields in this re-gion cover 16 million ha and account for about 25% of the na -tional grain yield (Zhang et al., 2015). Because China's agricultural production is so large, especially of wheat, it not only feeds its own population but also exports wheat beyond its borders. Our study area in North China is very important for that production and, interestingly, this study has revealed that when straw was combined with chemical fertilizers, SOC stock increases in the DC system were greater than those in both single-cropping systems, an effect mainly associated with greater amounts of crop residue being returned to the soil in double cropping compared to that returned from just one crop per year. Abundant nutrients (e.g., N, P, K) remain in crop residues and by intensifying management of those residues, farmers can help maintain soil nutrient balance and quality and can promote soil microbial biomass and beneficial mi -crobial by-products (Kumar & Goh, 2000). Thus, straw return is an effective way of promoting agricultural production and, along with annual double-cropping wheat and maize, is an advantageous and recommended method that can enhance both soil fertility and annual crop yields. In general, we observed lower responses of grain yield to different fertilizer treatments and cropping sys -tems than to SOC response. North China is a dryland area that receives low annual rainfall, hence crop productivity and fertilizer effect on grain yield are highly limited by precipitation and the low productivity response is linked to dry weather (Fan, Xu, Song, Zhou, & Ding, 2008). Finally, all fertilizer treatments in our study included mineral N fertilizer, which decreases decomposition of organic matter, thus leaving greater amounts of undecomposed crop residues than in soils without mineral N fertilization. This, in  13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2698  |    BERHANE Et Al.turn, increases the efficiency of SOC sequestration in the soil (Li, Jia, et al., 2017).4.4 | SOC stock responses and experimental durationsThe SOC response ratios of four experimental cropping duration pe -riods (1–5, 6–10, 11–20, and more-than-20 years) varied among fer -tilization treatments and were slightly time-dependent. SOC stock response ratios in the CK treatment did not change significantly in longer durations but did increase by 6% in the 1- to 5-year period. Declines in SOC stock over time may be due to the lack of C inputs and supplementary fertilizers, which would both compensate for C losses during nutrient consumption by growing crops. For the NP and NP+S treatment groups, SOC stock responses were higher, relative to the initial SOC stock levels, in the 11- to 20-year period (22% and 53%, respectively), but the responses in the more-than-20-year periods were only 4% and 13%, respectively (Figure 6). Similar to our NP+S re -sults, a meta-analysis across major agricultural zones of China (Wang, Wang, Xu, Feng, Zhang, & Lu, 2015) observed that long-term straw re -turn increased SOC stocks during the 10- to 20-year duration period, but then the increases declined in longer periods. This result indicates that SOC enhancement decreases after 20 years of fertilization with -out K. This persistent lack of K may eventually adversely affect plant growth, thus reducing C input from stubble, roots, and rhizodepo -sitions. In contrast, the annual average straw C input following the NP+S and NPK+S treatments was 3.21 and 2.84 Mg C ha−1 year−1, respectively, with average annual SOC sequestration rates of 0.4 and 0.7 Mg C ha−1 year−1, respectively (Figure 7). That indicated a higher C input but less sequestration potential in the NP+S than in the NPK+S treatment. Moreover, SOC enhancement in longer periods may be influenced by higher than average, initial SOC stocks in the NP and NP+S treatments compared to those in NPK and NPK+S treatments (Figure 10). However, the relationship between the C sequestration rate and the initial C content in the NP+S treatment (Figure 9) was weak ( R2 = .01) and differed from other treatments, possibly because the NP+S treatment had a smaller sample size than did the NPK+S treatment. According to the soil C saturation hypothesis, changes in SOC stocks may be affected by the initial soil C content levels: the lower the initial C content, the farther from saturation (Stewart et al., 2007). Considering that hypothesis and the upland fields included in our meta-analysis, it seems that SOC sequestration in longer duration periods was influenced by the initial soil C levels.In NPK and NPK+S treatments, the SOC stock response ratio in -creased incrementally in almost all duration periods (Figure 6). For the NPK treatment group, the highest SOC stock mean response ratio occurred in the more-than-20-year duration period, but there was a slight difference between duration periods. A study in North China by Gao, Yang, Ren, and Hailong (2015) determined that application of balanced inorganic fertilizers, with or without added manure or straw, can significantly increase SOC content over long periods. Similarly, our NPK+S treatment group had a significantly higher response ratio (63%; p < . 0 5 )  i n  th e  mo r e - th a n - 2 0- y ea r  d u ra ti o n  pe ri od  th a n  in periods less than 20 years. A meta-analysis by Tian et al. (2015) also suggested that application of mineral NPK plus straw increased the decomposition and mineralization rates of crop residues. This resulted in greater C storage, compared with the application of NPK only, as applications continued through time before reaching a new equilibrium. This increase in SOC in their NPK treatment group was due mostly to high C input from crop stubble and remaining roots, whereas in the NPK+S treatment group, the increase was most likely due to high C input from returned straw, as well as from crop residue resulting from higher crop productivity (Tian et al., 2015).In the long-term experiments, we observed no C saturation trend in all cropping duration periods in the NPK and NPK+S fertilizer treat -ment groups, indicating that soils in those treatment groups required more C input from balanced chemical fertilizer in order to sequester C continuously over the long-term. In addition, the positive relation -ship between SOC sequestration rate and straw C input in the NPK+S treatment in the included studies indicates that soil has the poten -tial to sequester C for at least 33 years. Our findings are supported by a long-term study of the effects of chemical fertilizers combined with straw and organic manure (Fan et al., 2008). Those researchers found, during their 26-year experiment, that dryland soils had not reached their C sequestration upper limit. Moreover, we analyzed the relationship between clay content and SOC storage for the two treatments with straw return and found a significant positive correla -tion ( y = 0.733 x + 16.29, R2 = .24, p < .01) for the NPK+S treatment, but the NP+S correlation increased to some extent and then declined (Appendix S5). However, due to limited studies reporting clay con -tent, the sample size for the NP+S was likely too small to analyze FIGURE 10 Initial SOC (soil organic carbon) stocks in the top 20 cm of soil in selected studies based on different fertilizer treatments in North China (CK, control [unfertilized]; NP, mineral nitrogen and phosphorous fertilizer; NPK, NP plus potassium; NP+S, NP plus straw; NPK+S, NPK plus straw). The thick lines within the boxes represent medians, the vertical bars show minimum and maximum values, and * and ° denote outliers. Treatments with different letters are significantly different (one-way ANOVA, p < .05) 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2699BERHANE Et Al.effectively. Soils with high clay content may experience greater SOC storage than soils with less clay content (Jagadamma & Lal, 2010). This is because organic C molecules adsorb to clay surfaces because of clay's large surface area and the presence of polyvalent cations that form organo-mineral complexes that protect SOC from microbial and enzymatic decay. But, the clay content in our study was low, 10%–32%, indicating that North China soils may best sequester SOC if kept under balanced fertilizer management and straw return (NPK+S) pro -grams. However, the relationships between SOC sequestration rates and the corresponding initial SOC stock levels were negative in almost all treatments, thus suggesting the possibility of SOC saturation in the study area in the future. Thus, our study indicates that balanced fer -tilizers with straw return could be very important for both crop yields and SOC stock increases over longer periods in dryland areas.Overall, we found straw return to be an effective practice for sustaining soil fertility and crop productivity. Our regional and cli -mate specific study revealed that fertilizer management, cropping duration, cropping system, initial SOC levels, and soil types all influ -enced SOC dynamics in relation to straw return. However, we found very few studies spanning periods greater than 30 years, regardless of whether straw return was examined and especially in dryland areas. Future research considering many factors in managed exper -iments are required to fully understand the benefits of straw return to agricultural fields. Such factors might include different fertilizer rates, more soil types, climatic conditions, straw types and quanti -ties, and different durations. Continued experimental study would help resolve uncertainties observed in meta-analyses. This knowl -edge can aid future cropland management and study, especially for upland crops in North China.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work was supported by the National Key R & D Program (2016YFD0200308), Key Research and Development Program of Shaanxi (2019ZDLNY01-05-01), and the Key Technologies R & D pro -gram of China during the 12th 5-year plan period (2012BAD14B11).DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENTThe data that support the findings of this study are available in the supplementary material of this article.ORCIDXiaohong Tian   https:/ /orcid.org/0000-0003-1383-4218  REFERENCESAdams, D., Gurevitch, J., & Rosenberg, M. (1997). Resampling tests for meta-analysis of ecological data. Ecology , 78, 1277–1283. https  ://doi.org/10.2307/2265879Banger, K., Kukal, S., Toor, G., Sudhir, K., & Hanumanthraju, T. (2009). Impact of long-term additions of chemical fertilizers and farmyard manure on carbon and nitrogen sequestration under rice-cowpea cropping system in semi-arid tropics. Plant and Soil , 318, 27–35.  https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-008-9813-zBhattacharyya, R., Kundu, S., Prakash, V., & Gupta, H. S. (2008). Sustainability under combined application of mineral and organic fer -tilizers in a rainfed soybean-wheat system of the Indian Himalayas. European Journal of Agronomy , 28, 33–46. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/  j.eja.2007.04.006Chen, H., Zhao, Y., Feng, H., Li, H., & Sun, B. (2015). Assessment of climate change impacts on soil organic carbon and crop yield based on long-term fertilization applications in Loess Plateau, China. Plant and Soil , 390, 401–417. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-014-23  32-1Dikgwatlhe, S., Chen, Z., Lai, R., Zhang, H., & Chen, F. (2014). Changes in soil organic carbon and nitrogen as affected by tillage and resi -due management under wheat-maize cropping system in the North China Plain. Soil and Tillage Research , 144, 110–118. https  ://doi.org/  10.1016/j.still.2014.07.014Fan, T., Xu, M., Song, S., Zhou, G., & Ding, L. (2008). Trends in grain yields and soil organic C in a long-term fertilization experiment in the China Loess Plateau. Journal of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science , 171, 448–457. https  ://doi.org/10.1002/jpln.20062  5192Fang, J., Piao, S., & Zhao, S. (2001). CO2 missing carbon sink and carbon pool in the land ecosystem with medium latitude in the Northern Hemisphere. Journal of Plant Ecology , 25, 594–602.Gao, W., Yang, J., Ren, S., & Hailong, L. (2015). The trend of soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, and wheat and maize productivity under dif -ferent long-term fertilizations in the upland fluvo-aquic soil of North China. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems , 103, 61–73. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s10705-015-9720-7Gong, W., Hu, T., Wang, J., Gong, Y., & Ran, H. (2008). Soil carbon pool and fertility under natural evergreen broadleaved forest and its arti -ficial regeneration forests in southern Sichuan Province, China. Acta Ecological Sinica , 28, 2536–2545. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/S1872-  2032(08)60060-8Guo, L. B., & Gifford, R. M. (2002). Soil carbon stocks and land use change: A meta-analysis. Global Change Biology , 8, 345–360. https  ://doi.org/ 10.1046/j.1354-1013.2002.00486.xGurevitch, J., & Hedges, L. (1999). Statistical issues in ecological me -ta-analysis. Ecology , 80, 1142–1149. https  ://doi.org/10.2307/177061Han, P., Zhang, W., Wang, G., Sun, W., & Huang, Y. (2016). Changes in soil organic carbon in croplands subjected to fertilizer management: A global meta-analysis. Scientific Report, 6, 27199. https  ://doi.org/ 10.1038/srep2  7199Hedges, L., Gurevich, J., & Curtis, P. (1999). The meta-analysis of response ratios in experimental ecology. Ecology , 80, 1150–1156. https  :// doi.org/10.2307/177062Horrigan, L., Lawrence, R., & Walker, P. (2002). How sustainable agricul -ture can address the environmental and human health harms of in -dustrial agriculture. Environmental Health Perspectives , 110, 445–456. https  ://doi.org/10.1289/ehp.02110445Huang, S., Sun, Y., & Zhang, W. (2012). Changes in soil organic carbon stocks as affected by cropping systems and cropping duration in China’s paddy fields: A meta-analysis. Climatic Change , 112, 847–858. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s10584-011-0255-xJagadamma, S., & Lal, R. (2010). Distribution of organic carbon in physical frac -tions of soils as affected by agricultural management. Biology and Fertility of Soils , 46, 543–554. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-010-0459-7Ji, Q., Zhao, S., Li, Z., Ma, Y., & Wang, X. (2016). Effects of biochar-straw on soil aggregation, organic carbon distribution, and wheat growth. Agronomy Journal , 108, 2129–2136. https  ://doi.org/10.2134/agron  j2016.02.0121Kirchmann, H., Haberhauer, G., Kandeler, E., Sessitsch, A., & Gerzabek, M. (2004). Effects of level and quality of organic matter input on carbon storage and biological activity in soil: Synthesis of long-term experiment. Global Biogeochemical Cycles , 18(4). https  ://doi.org/  10.1029/2003G  B002204Kumar, K., & Goh, K. (2000). Crop residues and management practices: Effects on soil quality. Soil nitrogen dynamics, crop yield, and nitrogen recovery. Advances in Agronomy , 68, 197–319. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/S0065-2113(08)60846-9 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License2700  |    BERHANE Et Al.Lal, R., Follett, R. F., Stewart, B. A., & Kimble, J. M. (2007). Soil carbon sequestration to mitigate climate change and advance food security. Soil Science , 172, 943–956. https  ://doi.org/10.1097/ss.0b013 e3181  5cc498Li, H., Cao, Y., Wang, X., Ge, X., Li, B., & Jin, C. (2017). Evaluation on the production of food crop straw in china. BioEnergy Research , 10, 949–957. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s12155-017-9845-4Li, H., Dai, M., Dai, S., & Dong, X. (2018). Current status and environ -ment impact of direct straw return in China’s cropland: A review. Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety , 159, 293–300. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecoenv.2018.05.014Li, X., Jia, B., Lv, J., Ma, Q., Kuzyakov, Y., & Li, F. (2017). Nitrogen fertil -ization decreases the decomposition of soil organic matter and plant residues in planted soils. Soil Biology and Biochemistry , 112, 47–55. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilb  io.2017.04.018Li, Y., Shi, S., Waqas, M., Zhou, X., Li, J., Wan, Y., … Wilkes, A. (2017). Long-term (≥ 20 years) application of fertilizers and straw return enhances soil carbon storage: A meta-analysis. Mitigation and Adapt Strategies for Global Change , 23, 603–619. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s11027-017-9751-2Liang, F., Li, J., Zhang, S., Gao, H., Wang, B., Shi, X., … Xu, M. (2019). Two-decade long fertilization induced changes in subsurface soil organic carbon stock vary with indigenous site characteristics. Geoderma , 337, 853–862. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.geode rma.  2018.10.033Liu, C., Lu, M., Cui, J., Li, B., & Fang, C. (2014). Effects of straw carbon input on carbon dynamics in agricultural soils: A meta-analysis. Global Change Biology , 20, 1366–1381. https  ://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.12517 Liu, E., Yan, C., Mei, X., He, W., So, H., Ding, L., … Fan, T. (2010). Long-term effect of chemical fertilizer, straw and manure on soil chemical and biological properties in northwest China. Geoderma , 158, 173–180. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.geode rma.2010.04.029Liu, J., & Diamond, J. (2005). China’s environment in a globalizing world. Nature , 435 , 1179–1186. https  ://doi.org/10.1038/4351179aLu, F., Wang, X., Han, B., Ouyang, Z., Duan, X., Zheng, H., & Miao, H. (2009). Soil carbon sequestrations by nitrogen fertilizer application, straw return and no tillage in China’s cropland. Global Change Biology , 15, 281–305. https  ://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2486.2008.01743.xLuo, Y., Hui, D., & Zhang, D. (2006). Elevated CO2 stimulates net accumu -lations of carbon and nitrogen in land ecosystems: A meta-analysis. Ecology , 87, 53–63. https  ://doi.org/10.1890/04-1724Mandal, B., Majumder, B., Bandyopadhyay, P. K., Hazra, G. C., Gangopadhyay, A., Samantaray, R. N., … Kundu, S. (2007). The potential of cropping systems and soil amendments for car -bon sequestration in soils under long-term experiments in sub -tropical India. Global Change Biology , 13, 357–369. https  ://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2486.2006.01309.xMeng, L., Ding, W., & Cai, Z. (2005). Storage of soil organic carbon and soil respiration as effected by long term quantitative fertilization. Advances in Earth Science , 20, 687–692.NCATS. (1994). Chinese organic fertilizer handbook . Beijing, China: National Center for Agricultural Technology Service.Pittelkow, C., Liang, X., Linquist, B., van Groenigen, K., Lee, J., Lundy, M., … van Kessel, C. (2015). Productivity limits and potentials of the principles of conservation agriculture. Nature , 517, 365–368. https  ://doi.org/10.1038/natur  e13809Powlson, D., Glendining, M., Coleman, K., & Whitmore, A. (2011). Implications for soil properties of removing cereal straw: Results from long-term studies. Agronomy Journal , 103, 279–287. https  ://doi.org/10.2134/agron j2010.0146s  Powlson, D., Stirling, C., Thierfelder, C., White, R., & Jat, M. (2016). Does conservation agriculture deliver climate change mitigation through soil carbon sequestration in tropical agro-ecosystems? Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment , 220, 164–174. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/  j.agee.2016.01.005Ramirez, K., Craine, J., & Fierer, N. (2010). Nitrogen fertilization inhib -its soil microbial respiration regardless of the form of nitrogen ap -plied. Soil Biology and Biochemistry , 42, 2336–2338. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilb  io.2010.08.032Reicosky, D., Evans, S., Cambardella, C., Allmaras, R., Wilts, A., & Huggins, D. (2002). Continuous corn with moldboard tillage: Residue and fer -tility effects on soil carbon. Journal of Soil and Water Conservation , 57, 277–284.Sanderman, J., & Baldock, J. (2010). Accounting for soil carbon sequestra -tion in national inventories: A soil scientist’s perspective. Environmental Research Letters , 5(3). https  ://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/5/3/034003Savci, S. (2012). An agricultural pollutant: Chemical fertilizer. International Journal of Environmental Science and Development , 3, 77–79. https  ://doi.org/10.7763/IJEhSD.2012.V3.191Shuo, L., Chen, J., Shi, J., Tian, X., Li, X., Li, Y., & Zhao, H. (2018). Impact of straw return on soil carbon indices, enz yme activit y, and grain produc -tion. Soil Science Society of America Journal , 81, 1475–1485. https  :// doi.org/10.2136/sssaj  2016.11.0368Shuo, L., Li, Y., Li, X., Tian, X., Zhao, A., Wang, S., … Shi, J. (2016). Effect of straw management on carbon sequestration and grain production in a maize-wheat cropping system in Anthrosol of the Guanzhong Plain. Soil and Tillage Research , 157, 43–51. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/  j.still.2015.11.002Song, G., Li, L., Pan, G., & Zhang, Q. (2005). Topsoil organic carbon stor -age of China and its loss by cultivation. Biogeochemistry , 74, 47–62. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s10533-004-2222-3Srinivasarao, C., Venkateswarlu, B., Lal, R., Singh, A., Vittal, K., Kundu, S., … Singh, S. (2012). Long-term effects of soil fertility management on carbon sequestration in rice-lentil cropping system of the Indo-Gangetic plains. Soil Science Society of America Journal , 76, 168–178. https  ://doi.org/10.2136/sssaj  2011.0184Stewart, C., Paustian, K., Conant, R., Plane, A., & Six, J. (2007). Soil car -bon saturation: Concepts, evidence and evaluation. Biogeochemistry , 86, 19–31. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s10533-007-9140-0Stewart, C., Paustian, K., Conant, R., Plante, A., & Six, J. (2008). Soil  carbon saturation: Evaluation and corroboration by long-term incu -bations. Soil Biology and Biochemistry , 40, 1741–1750. https  ://doi.org/  10.1016/j.soilb  io.2008.02.014Sun, B., Zhang, L., Yang, L., Zhang, F., Norse, D., & Zhu, Z. (2012). Agriculture non-point source pollution in China: Causes and mit -igation measures. Ambio , 41, 370–379. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s13280-012-0249-6Sun, L. I., Xun, W., Huang, T., Zhang, G., Gao, J., Ran, W., … Zhang, R. (2016). Alteration of the soil bacterial community during parent material maturation driven by different fertilization treatments. Soil Biology and Biochemistry , 96, 207–215. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilb  io. 2016.02.011Sun, W., Huang, Y., Zhang, W., & Yu, Y. (2010). Carbon sequestration and its potential in agricultural soils of China. Global Biogeochemical Cycles , 24(3). https  ://doi.org/10.1029/2009G  B003484Tian, K., Zhao, Y., Xu, X., Hai, N., Huang, B., & Deng, W. (2015). Effects of long-term fertilization and residue management on soil organic carbon changes in paddy soils of China: A meta-analysis. Agriculture Ecosystem and Environment , 204, 40–50. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/  j.agee.2015.02.008Wang, J., Wang, X., Xu, M., Feng, G., Zhang, W., & Lu, C. (2015). Crop yield and soil organic matter after long- term straw return to soil in China. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems , 102, 371–381. https  ://doi.org/  10.1007/s10705-015-9710-9Wang, J., Wang, X., Xu, M., Feng, G., Zhang, W., Yang, X., & Huang, S. (2015). Contributions of wheat and maize residues to soil organic carbon under long term rotation in north China. Scientific Reports , 5(1). https  ://doi.org/10.1038/srep1  1409Wang, L., Li, W., & Qiu, J. (2004). Study of the impact of bio-organic fer -tilizer on crop growth, soil fertility and yield. Soil Fertilizer , 5, 12–16. 13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License    |  2701BERHANE Et Al.Wang, L., Qiu, J., Tang, H., Li, H., & Li, C. (2007).The effects of differ -ent farm practices on the soil organic carbon in China. In H. J. Tang, V. R. Eric, & J. J. Qiu (Eds.), Simulation of soil organic carbon storage and changes in agricultural cropland in China and its impact on food security  (pp. 6–53). Beijing, China: China Meteorological Press.  ISBN 978-7-5029-4377–6.Wang, L., Qiu, J., Tang, H., Li, H., Li, C., & Van Ranst, E. (2008). Modelling soil organic carbon dynamics in the major agricultural regions of China. Geoderma , 147, 47–55. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.geode rma.  2008.07.009Wang, S., Zhao, Y., Wang, J., Zhu, P., Cui, X., Han, X., … Lu, C. (2018). The efficiency of long-term straw return to sequester organic carbon in Northeast China’s cropland. Journal of Integrative Agriculture , 17, 436–448. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/S2095-3119(17)61739-8Wang, Z., Zhang, Y., Liu, X., Tong, Y., Qiao, L., & Lei, X. (2008). Dry and wet nitrogen deposition in agricultural soils in the Loess area. Acta Ecological Sinica , 28, 3295–3301.West, T., & Post, W. (2002). Soil organic carbon sequestration rates by tillage and crop rotation: A global data analysis. Soil Science Society of America Journal , 66, 1930–1946. https  ://doi.org/10.3334/CDIAC/ TCM.002Yang, Y., Mohammat, A., Feng, J., Zhou, R., & Fang, J. (2007). Storage, patterns and environmental controls of soil organic carbon in China. Biogeochemistry , 84, 131–141. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s10533-007-9109-zZeng, M., de Vries, W., Bonten, L., Zhu, Q., Hao, T., Liu, X., … Shen, J. (2017). Model-based analysis of the long-term effects of fertil -ization management on cropland soil acidification. Environmental Science and Technology , 51, 3843–3851. https  ://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.6b05491Zha, Y., Wu, X., Gong, F., Xu, M., Zhang, H., Chen, L., … Cai, D. (2015). Long-term organic and inorganic fertilizations enhanced basic soil productivity in a fluvo-aquic soil. Journal of Integrative Agriculture , 14, 2477–2489. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/S2095-3119(15)61191-1Zhang, S., Gao, P., Tong, Y., Norse, D., Lu, Y., & Powlson, D. (2015). Overcoming nitrogen fertilizer over-use through technical and ad -visory approaches: A case study from Shaanxi Province, Northwest China. Agriculture Ecosystem and Environment , 209, 89–99. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.agee.2015.03.002Zhang, W., Wang, X., Xu, M., Huang, S., Liu, H., & Peng, C. (2010). Soil or -ganic carbon dynamics under long-term fertilization in arable land of northern China. Biogeoscience , 7, 409–425. https  ://doi.org/10.5194/bg-7-409-2010Zhang, W., Wu, S., & Dai, H. (2004). Estimation of wide spread pollu -tion situation in China’s agriculture and control countermeasures I. Estimation of wide spread pollution situation in China’s agriculture at early 21 century. Chinese Agricultural Science , 37, 1008–1017.Zhang, X., Sun, N., Wu, L., Xu, M., Bingham, I., & Li, Z. (2016). Effects of enhancing soil organic carbon sequestration in the topsoil by fertil -ization on crop productivity and stability: Evidence from long-term experiments with wheat-maize cropping systems in China. Science of the Total Environment , 562, 247–259. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/  j.scito  tenv.2016.03.193Zhao, H., Jiang, Y., Ning, P., Liu, J. F., Zheng, W., Tian, X., … Shar, A. (2019). Effect of different straw return modes on soil bacterial community, enzyme activities and organic carbon fractions. Soil Science Society of America Journal , 83, 638–648. https  ://doi.org/10.2136/sssaj  2018.  03.0101Zhao, H., Ning, P., Chen, Y., Liu, J., Ghaffar, S. A., Xiaohong, T., & Shi, J. (2019). Effect of straw amendment modes on soil organic carbon, nitrogen se -questration, and crop yield on the North-Central Plain of China. Soil Use and Management , 35(3), 511–525. https  ://doi.org/10.1111/sum.12482  Zhao, H., Sun, B., Jiang, L., Lu, F., Wang, X., & Ouyang, Z. (2015). How can straw incorporation management impact on soil carbon storage? A meta-analysis. Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global Change , 20, 1569–1569. https  ://doi.org/10.1007/s11027-014-9564-5Zhao, J., Wang, B., & Jia, Z. (2015). Phylogenetically distinct phy -lotypes modulate nitrification in a paddy soil. Applied and Environmental Microbiology , 81, 3218–3227. https  ://doi.org/10.1128/AEM.00426-15Zhao, S., He, P., Qiu, S., Jia, L., Liu, M., Jin, J., & Johnston, A. M. (2014). Long-term effects of potassium fertilization and straw return on soil potassium levels and crop yields in north-central China. Field Crops Research , 169 , 116–122. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.fcr.2014.09.017Zheng, Z., Yu, G., Fu, Y., Wang, Y., Sun, X., & Wang, Y. (2009). Temperature sensitivity of soil respiration is affected by prevailing climatic con -ditions and soil organic carbon content; a trans-China based case study. Soil Biology and Biochemistry , 41, 1531–1540. https  ://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilb  io.2009.04.013SUPPORTING INFORMATIONAdditional supporting information may be found online in the Supporting Information section.     How to cite this article: Berhane M, Xu M, Liang Z, Shi J, Wei G, Tian X. Effects of long-term straw return on soil organic carbon storage and sequestration rate in North China upland crops: A meta-analysis. Glob Change Biol . 2020;26:2686–2701. https  ://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.15018   13652486, 2020, 4, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/gcb.15018 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [09/05/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License