REVIEWpublished: 08 August 2017doi: 10.3389/fphys.2017.00578Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 1 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Editedby:RobertEdwardSharwood,AustralianNationalUniversity,AustraliaReviewedby:ThomasJ.Bach,UniversityofStrasbourg,FranceAstridWingler,UniversityCollegeCork,Ireland*Correspondence:SamanSeneweerasaman.seneweera@usq.edu.auSpecialtysection:ThisarticlewassubmittedtoPlantPhysiology,asectionofthejournalFrontiersinPhysiologyReceived: 09January2017Accepted: 26July2017Published: 08August2017Citation:ThompsonM,GamageD,HirotsuN,MartinAandSeneweeraS(2017)EffectsofElevatedCarbonDioxideonPhotosynthesisandCarbonPartitioning:APerspectiveonRootSugarSensingandHormonalCrosstalk.Front.Physiol.8:578.doi:10.3389/fphys.2017.00578Effects of Elevated Carbon Dioxideon Photosynthesis and CarbonPartitioning: A Perspective on RootSugar Sensing and HormonalCrosstalkMichaelThompson1,DananjaliGamage1,NaokiHirotsu1,2,AnkeMartin1andSamanSeneweera1*1FacultyofHealth,EngineeringandSciences,CentreforCro pHealth,UniversityofSouthernQueensland,Toowoomba,QLD,Australia,2FacultyofLifeSciences,ToyoUniversity,Itakura-machi,J apanPlant responses to atmospheric carbon dioxide will be of gre at concern in the future,as carbon dioxide concentrations ([CO 2]) are predicted to continue to rise. Elevated[CO2] causes increased photosynthesis in plants, which leads to greater productionof carbohydrates and biomass. Which organ the extra carbohyd rates are allocatedto varies between species, but also within species. These ca rbohydrates are a majorenergy source for plant growth, but they also act as signalin g molecules and have arange of uses beyond being a source of carbon and energy. Curr ently, there is a lack ofinformation on how the sugar sensing and signaling pathways of plants are affected bythe higher content of carbohydrates produced under elevate d [CO2]. Particularly, thesugar signaling pathways of roots are not well understood, a long with how they areaffected by elevated [CO 2]. At elevated [CO 2], some plants allocate greater amountsof sugars to roots where they are likely to act on gene regulat ion and therefore modifynutrient uptake and transport. Glucose and sucrose also pro mote root growth, an effectsimilar to what occurs under elevated [CO 2]. Sugars also crosstalk with hormones toregulate root growth, but also affect hormone biosynthesis . This review provides anupdate on the role of sugars as signaling molecules in plant r oots and thus exploresthe currently known functions that may be affected by elevat ed [CO 2].Keywords:elevatedcarbondioxideconcentration(e[CO 2]),sugarsensingandsignaling,photosynthesis,hormonecrosstalk, photosynthetic acclimation, carbon partitioni ng, hexokinaseINTRODUCTIONSince the industrial revolution, global atmospheric CO 2concentrations have rapidly increased,rising from 280 ppm to currently exceed 400 ppm ( Canadell et al., 2007; Tans and Keeling, 2016 ).PredictionswarnthattheglobalCO 2concentrationwillcontinuetorisedueinparttohumanity’scontinued carbon emissions ( Meehl et al., 2007 ). The resulting increase in CO 2will lead to avariety of both positive and negative eﬀects on major agricultu ral crops used to feed the globalpopulation,manyofwhichmayyetbeunknown.ElevatedCO 2concentrations,writtenhenceforthas e[CO 2], cause increased photosynthesis in plants, which subsequen tly lead to positive eﬀectsThompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar Sensingsuch as greater growth, above-ground biomass, and yield(AinsworthandLong,2005;vanderKooietal.,2016 ).However,e[CO2] also causes negative eﬀects which could have seriousconsequencesforthequalityofthecropspecies,suchas,dec linesinavarietyofnutrientsincludingproteinconcentrationso ffoodcrops (Fernando et al., 2015; Broberg et al., 2017 ), vitamins andsome macro- and micro-elements ( Högy and Fangmeier, 2008;Myers et al., 2014 ). Due to these negative eﬀects, understandingplantresponsestoe[CO 2]willbecomeincreasinglyimportantasCO2levelsrise.The increase in photosynthesis caused by e[CO 2] results inan increase in carbohydrate production, which alters the plan t’scarbon and nitrogen metabolism. Apart from this direct eﬀecton photosynthesis, many physiological processes are regulate dindirectly, particularlyviasugarsensingandsignalingpat hways.Sugar sensing and signaling plays an important role in the plantresponse to e[CO 2], however, this is not well understood inrelation to plant nutritional quality. Sugars are well known fortheir use as a source of energy and organic building blocks, an dinplantstheyalsoplayaroleinregulatinggeneexpression( Priceet al., 2004 ), germination ( Dekkers et al., 2004 ), and hormonalcrosstalk( Mishraetal.,2009 )amongotherfunctions.Plant growth and development requires the uptake of soilnutrients by the roots, however, the concentration of nutri entsin soil can vary and plants must adapt to the environment inordertofulﬁlltheirnutrientrequirements.Sugarsproduce dfromphotosynthesis are transported into roots where they can assi stin regulating nutrient uptake via sugar sensing ( Camañes et al.,2007; Lejay et al., 2008 ), though little research has been donein this area. How e[CO 2] aﬀects root function is not entirelyunderstood, but we do know that it can aﬀect the acquisitionof soil nutrients ( Taub and Wang, 2008; Pandey et al., 2015;Jayawardena et al., 2017 ). To what extent sugars may play a rolein this is not currently known. This review aims to provide thecurrentknowledgeandunderstandingofsugarsensinginroo tsaswellasthelimitedinformationavailableonhowthisisaﬀect edbye[CO2]inordertofacilitateresearchintothisareaandsafeguar dcropsfrompotentialnegativeeﬀectsoffuture[CO 2].In order to study the eﬀects of e[CO 2] in the ﬁeld, free-airCO2enrichment (FACE) facilities have been established whichallow plants to be grown in large scale open air environments.Utilizing either FACE or chamber experiments can aﬀect theoutcome of the experiment. For example, in comparison toFACE experiments, chamber studies using e[CO 2] have beenshown to further increase the yield of globally importantfood crops ( Ainsworth et al., 2008 ). Plant growth diﬀerencesbetween FACE and chamber experiments are likely inﬂuencedby the root growth, as restricting the available area for roo tgrowth reduces plant biomass ( Poorter et al., 2012 ). Mostof the studies discussed in this review were conducted withchamberexperimentsandtoourknowledgenoexperimentshavecurrently been done in FACE facilities for sugar sensing stu dies.As such, it is uncertain how the results of many of these sugarsensing studies will potentially change in plants grown in ﬁeldconditions.Many reviews have focused on various aspects of sugarsensing, however, this review discusses the limited amount ofliteraturepublishedonsugarsignalingandsensingasitrela testoplantrootfunction,nutrientacquisition,andhormonecros stalk.As such, we have chosen roots as the focus of our review due tothecurrentabsenceofreviewsinthisarea,butmoreimportan tlydue to their importance in determining the nutrient proﬁle ofplants. This review also discusses the eﬀect of e[CO 2] on thecontent of sugars in plants, including how photosynthesis andcarbohydratepartitioningisaﬀected,andhowe[CO 2]mayaﬀectsugar sensing in roots. The aim of this review is to provide theinformationnecessaryforscientistsdevelopingresearchpro jectsinvolving sugar sensing in roots or the eﬀect of e[CO 2] on rootsandsugarsensing.ELEVATED [CO 2] AND PHOTOSYNTHESISPhotosynthesis is a crucial process for controlling variabl esof crop growth and exposing C3 plants to e[CO 2] generallyincreases photosynthesis ( Drake et al., 1997; Ainsworthand Long, 2005; Wang et al., 2012 ;Figure1). Increasedphotosynthesis under e[CO 2] mainly occurs due to an increasein ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) carboxylase/oxygenase(Rubisco) activity. Rubisco catalyzes the carboxylation of Ru BP,whichisrequiredforCO 2ﬁxation,butalsousesO 2asasubstratetooxygenateRuBPinaprocesscalledphotorespiration( Makinoand Mae, 1999 ). The carboxylation reaction of RuBP is notsaturated at the current atmospheric [CO 2], therefore, as theavailability of CO 2increases under e[CO 2] conditions so toowill the rate of carboxylation ( Drake et al., 1997 ). The otherprocess, photorespiration, is wasteful in terms of energy, as i tcosts the plant more energy and does not lead to any gains inenergy or carbon ( Peterhansel et al., 2010 ). However, increasingthe atmospheric CO 2levels increases the [CO 2] surroundingRubisco, shifting the ratio of CO 2:O2and thereby increasing therate of carboxylation while decreasing the rate of oxygenati on(MakinoandMae,1999 ).Despite the initial stimulation of photosynthesis seen ate[CO2], under long-term exposure to e[CO 2] the plant incursa down-regulation of photosynthesis in both FACE studies(Ainsworth and Long, 2005 ) and chamber experiments ( Warrenet al., 2014 ). This occurrence is known as photosyntheticacclimation. Photosynthetic acclimation, however, does no talways completely negate the positive eﬀects e[CO 2] has onphotosynthesis. For example, in one study white clover wasgrown under elevated (600 ppm) [CO 2] for 8 years and retaineda 37% increase in photosynthesis after acclimation was observ ed(Ainsworthetal.,2003 ).Theseﬁndingssuggestthatﬁnalgrowthresponse to e[CO 2] is largely determined by the magnitude ofplantacclimationtoe[CO 2].Various explanations as to the cause of photosyntheticacclimation have been made. Decreased leaf nitrogen (N) is o nesuchexplanation.Inastudyonrice,e[CO 2]causedadeclineinNallocation into leaf blades, which subsequently reduced Rub iscoandotherproteinsynthesis( Seneweeraetal.,2011 ).Insupportofthis,ina12yearstudyon Liquidambarstyraciﬂua noacclimationresponse occurred during the time when leaf N was suﬃcientfor photosynthetic requirements ( Warren et al., 2014 ). WithoutFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 2 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingFIGURE 1 | Overview of potential pathways for elevated [CO 2] mediated sugar sensing responses. Elevated [CO 2] increases the availability of carbon in leavescausing greater Rubisco activity and higher rates of photos ynthesis. Greater photosynthesis increases the content of non-structural carbohydrates in leaves which canlead to greater starch reserves and increased auxin biosynt hesis. Over long term e[CO 2] exposure, photosynthesis is downregulated by increased c arbohydrates.Carbohydrates are transported to roots, where they lead to g reater root growth and stimulation of gene transcription. R oot growth is also altered from the crosstalk ofcarbohydrates with hormones. HXK, Hexokinase; PSI, Phospha te Starvation Induced; TOR, Target-of-rapamycin.suﬃcient N to invest in Rubisco, the photosynthetic capacityof the leaf declines. Low availability of soil nitrate incre asesthe severity of photosynthetic acclimation and seems also to beassociatedwithaninhibitionofleafnitrateassimilation (Vicenteet al., 2016 ). Inhibition of leaf nitrate assimilation also occursunder e[CO 2] (Bloom et al., 2014 ). It is not known whether thereduction of Rubisco synthesis at e[CO 2] is directly related tolowerNassimilationorifRubiscoisjustregulatedtobalanc ethesourceandsinkactivity.Another explanation for plant acclimation to e[CO 2] isthat an increase in sugar production tips the source—sinkbalance of plants, potentially resulting in more sugars beingproduced in source tissues than can be utilized in sink tissue s.This was the case in a FACE experiment by Ainsworth et al.(2004), who used single gene mutations to test the hypothesisthat photosynthetic acclimation is due to inadequate sinkcapacity. In the study, a soybean cultivar with an indetermin ategrowth trait (Williams) was compared with a line mutated fordeterminate growth (Williams- dt1). Only the determinate lineshowedphotosyntheticacclimation.Ontheotherhand,mutat ionof a determinate soybean cultivar (Elf) to an indeterminateform showed no increased photosynthesis. While this mayprovide evidence for single gene mutations being responsiblefor photosynthetic acclimation, this could also be explained bythe fact that Elf is a cultivar bred to avoid sink limitations(Ainsworthetal.,2004 ).Whilesinkcapacityremainshigh,plantsare able to continue to utilize the greater CO 2availability.However, with limited carbon sink capacity the plant mustdecrease photosynthesis in order to maintain source activit y.As such, when e[CO 2] causes photosynthesis to surpass whatthe plant is capable of utilizing or exporting to sinks, anaccumulation of non-structural carbohydrates (NSC) occur s(Ainsworth et al., 2004 ) and leads to feedback inhibition ofphotosynthesis( Figure1).These NSCs are then able to aﬀect gene transcriptionthrough their role as signaling molecules ( Mishra et al.,2009; de Jong et al., 2014 ). As such, sugars are knownto be involved in photosynthetic acclimation, whereby theextra carbohydrates produced under e[CO 2] cause a down-regulation of photosynthetic gene transcripts and suppressprotein synthesis, thereby decreasing the rate of photosynthe sis(Cheng et al., 1998 ). In this way, there is a feedback inhibitionwhere the products of photosynthesis cause suppression ofphotosynthesis,leadingtophotosyntheticacclimation.Rubisco, an essential enzyme in the photosynthetic pathway,is known to be decreased in leaves that have an accumulationof carbohydrates ( Cheng et al., 1998; Aranjuelo et al., 2008 ).Despitethisevidence,astudyby LudewigandSonnewald(2000)opposed the hypothesis that accumulation of sugars leads tophotosynthetic acclimation when they found that high [CO 2]causedacceleratedleafsenescencein Nicotianatabacum ,leadingto down-regulation of leaf photosynthetic related genes andthus accelerated leaf senescence. Only senescing leaves we refound to show down-regulation of photosynthetic genes andincreased sugar levels were not observed. They concluded th atphotosynthetic acclimation was caused by leaf senescence ra therFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 3 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar Sensingthan sugar accumulation. Both Aranjuelo et al. (2008) andCheng et al. (1998) , however, reported that the down-regulationof photosynthesis occurred prior to senescence of the plants.All three studies used diﬀerent plant species, which suggeststhat some species acclimate to e[CO 2] diﬀerently than others.Therefore, this suggests that photosynthetic acclimation h as nosingle cause, with multiple processes each contributing to adiﬀerentdegree.EFFECT OF ELEVATED [CO 2] ONCARBOHYDRATE BIOSYNTHESIS ANDALLOCATION BETWEEN ORGANSAsdiscussedintheprevioussection,e[CO 2]causesanincreaseincarbohydrate production via the stimulation of photosynthes is.Ithasbeenobservedthatincreasedphotosynthesisundere[C O2]results in greater production of certain carbohydrates compa redto others. The concentration of sucrose, the main product ofphotosynthesis, increases in all organs of pea plants exposed toe[CO2]ingrowthchambers,however,glucoseconcentrationsarelargelyunaltered( Aranjueloetal.,2013 ).Glucosemeasurementsmay be inaccurate as glucose content can ﬂuctuate throughou tthedayinsomeplants,increasingandthendecreasingasthed ayprogresses( Seneweeraetal.,1995;Grimmeretal.,1999 ).Assuch,hexosetosucroseratiowilldiﬀerdependingonwhattimeperiodthe glucose levels are measured. Glucose measurements take nwhen glucose levels are naturally low, will give a lower hexos eto sucrose ratio than if glucose was measured during a periodof high glucose levels. Sucrose levels also increased in cas tor oilplantsgrowningrowthchambersunder700ppmCO 2comparedto350ppm,increasingbyanaverageofonethird( Grimmeretal.,1999). Levels of sucrose are higher than that of hexoses undere[CO2] in both chamber and ﬁeld studies ( Grimmer et al., 1999;Rogers et al., 2004 ), however, in soybean the leaf hexose-carbontosucrose-carbonratioincreaseswithexposuretoe[CO 2],wherea ﬁve-fold greater ratio of hexose-carbon to sucrose-carbo n wasobserved near the end of the growing season ( Rogers et al.,2004). Perhaps, such variation in hexose to sucrose ratio duringplant development may aﬀect plant source and sink activities.In addition, the preference of a plant to produce one type ofcarbohydrate over another could potentially be linked to thecontrolofgenesbyaspeciﬁccarbohydrate(glucose,sucrose ,etc.),though this is not known. For example, if a plant requires thepresence of sucrose to initiate the repression of a speciﬁc gene ,itwouldbeineﬀectivetoproducegreaterglucosequantitiest hansucrose.Theeﬀectthatcarbohydrateshaveongeneexpression isatopicdiscussedfurtherinthisreview,however,theimpactt hata change in sugar composition has on plant gene regulations isnotwellunderstood.Starch, a major storage carbohydrate in plants, is alsoincreased in plants growing in e[CO 2] (Aranjuelo et al., 2008 ).The increase in starch likely contributes to the high levels ofsucrose observed with e[CO 2], due to the conversion of starchto sucrose overnight. This conversion is important for norma lplant growth under ambient conditions ( Smith et al., 2005 ),however, under e[CO 2] it may contribute to the accumulationof sucrose. In plants grown under ambient [CO 2] the starchcontent builds up during the day and disappears overnight. Theincreased production of starch under e[CO 2], however, meansthat not all of the plant’s starch reserves are depleted duringthe night, leading to a gradual accumulation in leaves overtime (Grimmer et al., 1999 ). Diﬀerent plant species accumulatediﬀerent amounts of sucrose compared to starch, for examplespinach accumulates more sucrose and cotton more starch(Goldschmidt and Huber, 1992 ). These responses are likely toaﬀect the sugar sensing pathways in either type of plant. Thedegree of carbon partitioning between sucrose and starch isinﬂuenced by the length of daylight. In shorter periods of ligh t,carbon partitioning shifts toward starch synthesis, while suc rosesynthesis and consumption is decreased ( Pokhilko et al., 2014 ).Less starch is accumulated during days with long light period s,while sucrose synthesis is increased ( Pokhilko et al., 2014 ).Sucrose content is greater during the day than night, but theamount of sucrose remaining at the end of the day, as well asthe end of the night, decreases as day length decreases ( Sulpiceet al., 2014 ). The degradation of starch at night is inﬂuenced bythe amount of trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P). Increased T6P wasfoundtoinhibitstarchdegradationatnightin Arabidopsis plants,resulting in much higher starch reserves at the end of the nig ht(Martinsetal.,2013 ).Inaddition, Martinsetal.(2013) foundthatT6P also slightly increases starch synthesis. As such, incre asedT6P concentrations result in more starch at both the end of th edayandnight.Combinedwithlimitationsonstarchdegradat ionset by the plant’s circadian clock, these ﬁndings suggested amodel for overnight starch metabolism ( Martins et al., 2013;Lunn et al., 2014 ). High sucrose demand causes lower T6P,alleviating the inhibition of starch degradation and incre asingsucrose content. Under low sucrose demand, T6P increases andinhibits starch degradation. The plant’s circadian clock prev entsthe total depletion of starch at night by setting limits on sta rchdegradation based on the length of the night period ( Martinsetal.,2013 ).The extra carbohydrates that accumulate in leaves areallocated to the rest of the plant in varying amounts, wheresome organs receive more of these carbohydrates than others .Littleresearchhasbeendoneintotheallocationofcarbohy dratesunder e[CO 2], but the following studies have investigated this.Carbohydrateallocationundere[CO 2]varieswithspecies.Somespecies allocate more carbon to the seeds and others to theshoots, leaves or roots ( Salsman et al., 1999; Sasaki et al., 2007;Aljazairi et al., 2014; Butterly et al., 2015 ). For example, duringthe grain ﬁlling stage of rice e[CO 2] promotes the translocationof carbohydrates stored in vegetative tissues to the panicle ,as well as allocating newly ﬁxed carbohydrates to the panicle ,where it is stored as starch ( Sasaki et al., 2007 ). A diﬀerencein carbon allocation between durum wheat and bread wheatoccurs under e[CO 2]. Durum cultivars Blanqueta and Sulaallocated more carbon into roots, rather than shoots ( Aljazairiet al., 2014 ), while the bread wheat cultivar Yitpi allocatedmore carbon into shoots ( Butterly et al., 2015 ). Furthermore,Sula (a modern cultivar) allocated more carbon into spikescompared to Blanqueta (a traditional cultivar), which alloc atedmore carbon into non-reproductive shoot tissue. This indica tesFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 4 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar Sensingthatvariationexistswithinaswellasbetweenspeciesandsu ggeststhat genetics contributes to these diﬀerences. In the case of thetwodurumcultivars,bothdiﬀeredinyieldpotential.Sula,wh ichinvested more carbon in spikes, is a higher yielding wheat tha nBlanqueta. Elevated [CO 2] also increased growth of roots andshoots of tepary bean, where the roots saw a ten-fold increase instarch (Salsman et al., 1999 ). Allocating more carbon into rootsunder e[CO 2] would contribute to greater root growth, allowingimproved nutrient and/or water uptake and thus would help tomaintainthebalanceofnutrientswithintheplant.Carbon dioxide concentration is not the sole regulatorof carbohydrate partitioning, with many other environmenta lfactors involved in shaping the outcome. Which carbohydratethe increased carbon is partitioned into can be aﬀected bythe method plants use to take up nitrogen. An experiment byAranjuelo et al. (2013) found N 2-ﬁxing and NO−3-fed plantsvaried greatly in sucrose content while exposed to e[CO 2].Sucrose increased by 366% in NO−3-fed plants but only by 56%in N2-ﬁxing plants. As e[CO 2] is known to aﬀect the uptakeand assimilation of N in plants ( Bloom et al., 2014; Vicenteet al., 2015a ), this could point to a link between N uptake andcarbohydrate allocation to roots and thereby facilitating m orenutrientuptake.Plantgrowthmethod(glasshouse,ﬁeld,etc. )alsoaﬀectscarbonallocation.Elevated[CO 2]causesincreasedcarbonallocation to roots of perennial rye-grass resulting in incr easedroot dry matter when grown in ﬁeld conditions, however,no such results occur when grown in controlled environmentchambers ( Suter et al., 2002 ). This outcome in rye-grass wasattributed to a diﬀerence in N availability, plant age and shoo tsink strength. Results from Aranjuelo et al. (2013) also indicatethat sink strength aﬀects carbon allocation, where increase dcarbon sink strength of N 2-ﬁxing plant’s nodules allows greaterstorage of carbohydrates which in turn prevents the inhibiti onof photosynthesis by increased carbohydrates. This could me anthat control of carbon allocation could be partially aﬀected bythe availability of carbon sinks. Another factor that may aﬀe cttheallocationofcarbohydratesundere[CO 2]istheeﬀecte[CO 2]has on leaf area, as appeared to be the case for N allocationin rice (Makino et al., 1997 ). Plants which show less variableresponses to leaf area under e[CO 2] (e.g., rice; Makino et al.,1997) compared to others, may allocate more carbohydrates toroots, as their leaf sink capacity doesn’t change to accommod atethe greater carbohydrate production. For some plants, rootgrowth is increased under e[CO 2] (George et al., 2003 ), whichmay increase their sink capacity, allowing for greater alloc ationof carbohydrates to this organ. Carbon allocation under e[C O2]can also be inﬂuenced by pH, as seen in plants grown in alow pH media under e[CO 2], where much of the carbon fromphotosynthesisaccumulatesintheshoots( Hachiyaetal.,2014 ).SUGAR SENSING AND SIGNALING: ANOVERVIEWThere are many reviews already written on the role of sugars a ssignals in plants including Granot et al. (2013) ,Rolland et al.(2006), andSheen (2014) to name a few. However, to the best ofourknowledgetherearenoreviewswrittenspeciﬁcallyforsu garsensing in roots, which is a major focus of this review. As suc h,before moving on to our discussion of sugar sensing in roots,this section will serve to provide general information on suga rsensing not speciﬁc to roots. There is much more informationknownonsugarsensingthanwritteninthissection,however ,wedirect you to other reviews, such as those mentioned above, f ormoredetaileddiscussionsonsugarsensingnotspeciﬁctoroot s.Glucosehaslongbeenknowntoplayaroleinphotosyntheticgene repression, with the enzyme hexokinase acting as a sensor(Jang and Sheen, 1994 ). It has since been established thathexokinase is a central enzyme in glucose sugar signalingpathways ( Moore et al., 2003 ). Through sugar sensing,hexokinase appears to be able to promote plant growth bycausinggreatercellexpansioninroots,leaves,andinﬂoresc enceswhenexposedtohighlightconditions( Mooreetal.,2003 ).In addition to hexokinase, SnRK1 has been indicated asanothersugarsensorwhichisinvolvedinasucrose/T6Psigna lingnetwork and operates as a starvation response ( Baena-Gonzalezet al., 2007 ). It has been observed that SnRK1 may be inhibitedbythepresenceofsucrose.KIN10,apartoftheSnRK1complex,is activated under sugar starvation, leading to up-regulati onand down-regulation of various genes ( Baena-Gonzalez et al.,2007). SnRK1 also contributes to increasing sugar content inplantsbyphosphorylatingbothsucrosephosphatesynthase(SPS)and trehalose-phosphate synthase (TPS; Nukarinen et al., 2016 ),of which the resulting sugars, sucrose and T6P, may lead toinactivationofSnRK1( Baena-Gonzalezetal.,2007;Zhangetal.,2009). Sucrose concentrations are linked with T6P levels, asincreased sucrose leads to stimulation of TPS which in turnincreases T6P concentrations ( Yadav et al., 2014 ). High T6Pthen causes a decline in sucrose content which prevents furthe rincreases in T6P ( Yadav et al., 2014 ). The regulation of T6Pcontent is primarily linked with sucrose content, as studies ha veshown that only sucrose and hexoses able to be converted tosucrose have a signiﬁcant eﬀect on T6P levels ( Lunn et al.,2006; Yadav et al., 2014 ). Sucrose and T6P may also be involvedtogether with nitrogen assimilation, where increases in T6 Psignaltheplanttosynthesizeorganicandaminoacidsrather thansucrose (Figueroa et al., 2016 ). In conjunction with T6P othersimilarsugarphosphates,glucose1-phosphate(G1P)andglucose6-phosphate, are able to inhibit SnRK1, with G1P workingtogetherwithT6Ptosigniﬁcantlyincreasethisinhibition (Nuneset al., 2013 ). Altogether SnRK1 appears to be involved in theplant’sstarvationresponse,inactivatingduringtimesofsu ﬃcientsucrose/T6Pandactivatingwhenthesesignalsarelow.Sugar signaling in plants begins as early as seed developmentand germination. At low levels, sugars are able to delaygermination of Arabidopsis thaliana seeds. Other sugars havedisplayed this function as well, with sucrose, glucose, and thenon-metabolically active glucose analog 3-O-methyl glucoseexhibiting a greater delay on germination than others ( Dekkerset al., 2004 ). The ability of the glucose analog to delaygerminationindicatesapathwayindependentofhexokinase.Sucrosefunctionsasasignalingmoleculeinavarietyofway s.It is capable of inducing gene expression, such as, the Citrusammoniumtransportergene CitAMT1 (Camañesetal.,2007 ),asFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 5 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar Sensingwell as aﬀecting the cell cycle. During the G1 phase of the cellcycle, sucrose induces the expression of the two CycD cyclinsCyc2andCyc3, which inﬂuence cell cycle progression and celldivision ( Riou-Khamlichi et al., 2000 ). The role of sucrose inregulating the cell cycle likely correlates with its role in plantgrowth. As a plant produces more sugars, sucrose stimulatesthe cell cycle and allows utilization of the produced sugars f orgrowth. As such, e[CO 2] is likely to facilitate this process. Thegreater sugar production caused by e[CO 2] could stimulate thecellcycleandallowtheexcesssugarstobeusedtoproducegre aterplantbiomass( SeneweeraandConroy,2005 ).Sugar signaling pathways also interact with hormones. Forexample, glucose increases the biosynthesis of auxin, there foreaﬀecting processes regulated by this hormone ( Sairanen et al.,2012). Evidence also suggests that sugars interact with pathwaysofbothabscisicacid( Chengetal.,2002 )andethylene( Priceetal.,2004). Among other functions, abscisic acid has an enhancingeﬀectonsomegenesregulatedbysugar( Rooketal.,2001 ),whileglucose downregulates the expression of ethylene biosynthe ticgenes(VnACO2 andVnEIL1)andatranscriptionfactorinvolvedin the ethylene signaling pathway of narbon bean cotyledons(Andriunas et al., 2011 ). These ﬁndings show the various rolesof sugars in gene regulation and thus their contribution to pl antgrowthanddevelopmentbywayofsugarsensing.SUGAR SENSING AND SIGNALING INROOTSCurrently there is a lack of understanding about the eﬀect ofe[CO2]onsugarsensing,however,manystudieshaveconductedexperiments applying exogenous carbohydrates to plant roots,thus creating conditions of increased root sugar content wh ichmaymirrortheconditionsofgreaterrootsugarcontentresu ltingfrom increased photosynthesis under e[CO 2]. Most of theresearch into the role carbohydrates play in plant roots hasfocussedonsucroseexclusively.Whilesomeresearchhasbr oughtto light several eﬀects of other carbohydrates, such as, gluc oseandfructose,theremayyetbemanymorerolesthatnon-sucro secarbohydrates play. Much of this work is limited to A. thaliana ,but it is likely that sugars play many other diverse roles in ro otfunction that may be discovered among other plant species. Thefollowing section discusses the potential outcomes for root s ofplants grown under e[CO 2], whereby excess carbohydrates inleavesaretransportedtorootsandleadtoalteredgeneexpres sion(Figure1). The eﬀects of sugar sensing in roots has had lessattention then in shoots, as is especially the case for sugarsensing under e[CO 2]. As such,there is insuﬃcient data todrawconclusionsatthistime,however,weprovideaninsightinto howe[CO2]mayaﬀectsugarsensinginroots,aswellassugarcrosstalkwithhormones.Sugar Sensing and Gene Expression inRootsNO−3uptake is diurnally regulated in a variety of plants ( Lejayet al., 1999; Ono et al., 2000; Feng et al., 2011 ). InA. thalianathe NO−3transport genes Nrt2.1andNrt1, which are down-regulated at night, are induced by sucrose application at night(Lejay et al., 1999 ), a result also seen with rice Nrt2genes (Fengetal.,2011 ).Thiscouldmeanthatifsugarsaccumulateinrootsofe[CO2]grownplantsduringthenight,thediurnalcycleofNO−3transportwillbeaﬀected.Inplantsthatstorestarchintheirro ots,thiscouldleadtoanaccumulationofsucroseinrootsthrough outthenight,leadingtoalteredgenetranscriptionovernight. Sucroseconcentrationisalsoresponsiblefortranscriptionalregul ationofotherdiurnally-regulatedrootiontransporters.Sucrosereg ulatesthree NH+4transporters ( AtAmt1.1, AtAmt1.2, andAtAmt1.3 ),an SO2−4transporter ( AtHst1), a phosphate transporter ( AtPt2),a K+transporter ( AtKup2), a metal transporter ( AtIrt1), and aK+channel ( AtSkor), though each to a diﬀerent degree ( Lejayetal.,2003 ).Sucrosealsocontributestoregulationofammoniumuptake in Citrusplants, via stimulating expression of CitAMT1(Camañesetal.,2007 ).Thoughsucrosehastheabilitytoregulateroot ion transporters, they are not all regulated by the samemechanism. Lejayetal.(2008) foundthatthreediﬀerentsignalingpathways regulated the expression of 16 sugar-induced root io ntransporters. Most genes (ten) appeared to be regulated by apathwaydependentonthecatabolicactivityofhexokinase,rat herthanitssensingfunction,wherebythedownstreammetabolite sofglycolysis act as signals for gene regulation. A second pathw ay,aﬀecting ﬁve genes, involved a sucrose and/or glucose signalprior to hexokinase activity. Hexokinase sensing was proposedas the third pathway, which aﬀected a single gene. All threepathways are brieﬂy reviewed in Rolland et al. (2006) wheretheyarereferredtoastheglycolysis-dependentpathway,HXK1-independent signaling pathway, and HXK1-dependent pathway,in order of those mentioned above. Among these genes, themajority appeared to also respond to [CO 2] (Lejay et al., 2008 ).If no sucrose was applied exogenously to the plants, 11 of the16 genes responded to light exposure, provided there was alsoCO2intheatmosphere.Inadditiontothis,tenofthegeneswereobserved to respond further at higher [CO 2] (600 µL L−1CO2)ratherthanlow[CO 2](300 µLL−1CO2).Thismaysuggestthatthese genes display a varied response depending on the amountof photosynthate produced. As such, these results may supportour argument that greater photosynthesis caused by e[CO 2] willchangethelevelofexpressionofsomegenesinroots.Sucrose can also stimulate nitrogen assimilation via theoxidative pentose phosphate pathway (OPPP). An increase insucroseconcentrationinrootsof A.thaliana causestheinductionofOPPPgenes( G6PDH2,G6PDH3,6PGDH2 )andnitrate/nitritereduction genes ( NIA1, NIA2, NiR; Bussell et al., 2013 ). Thisinduction requires plants to have a functional plastidial OPP P,which suggests that sucrose inﬂuences the OPPP to producea signal that leads to transcription of N assimilation genes(Bussell et al., 2013 ). Not only is the OPPP important forsucrosemediatednitrogenassimilation,butitisalsorequi redforglucose mediated Nrt2.1expression. Glucose aﬀects the OPPPvia HXK1, which ultimately leads to the stimulation of Nrt2.1transcription( deJongetal.,2014 ).Glucosealsoappearstopost-transcriptionally regulate Nrt2.1 protein levels and transpor t,however, this appears to be independent of the mechanism usedtostimulate Nrt2.1transcriptionviaHXK1( deJongetal.,2014 ).Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 6 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingUtilization of the glucose-insensitive2-1 (gin2-1) mutant, whichlacks the hexokinase sugar sensing mechanism, showed thatglucose regulates Nrt2.1transcription independently of nitrate-mediated regulation ( de Jong et al., 2014 ). However, it is notknown how these genes function under dynamic changes tosugarcompositionate[CO 2].Thereisevidencethattranscriptionof OPPP genes in leaf tissue is down-regulated under e[CO 2](Vicente et al., 2015b ), but there was no evidence to suggestsugars as the cause of the down-regulation. Given that sucro seand glucose can aﬀect the OPPP in roots, it is reasonable thata similar system may exist in leaf tissue. The down-regulati onseen inVicente et al. (2015b) may then be attributable toincreased sugar production under e[CO 2]. As increased sucrosein roots cause induction of OPPP genes, an increase in sucros edue to increased photosynthesis under e[CO 2] may cause asimilar interaction in leaves, but down-regulating the gen esinstead.Sugars may also contribute to nutrient uptake by control ofgenes involved in root formation. Sucrose regulates the gen eCYCD4;1, a member of the D-type cyclins ( De Veylder et al.,1999) which belongs to a family of proteins, called cyclins,that regulate cell cycle progression ( Mironov et al., 1999 ). ThecyclinCYCD4;1 is expressed in pericycle cells of the root apicalmeristem and is involved in lateral root primordia formation(Nieuwland et al., 2009 ). This may be, in part, how sugars areable to regulate root growth, as discussed in the next sectio n. Inaddition,thismayexplainonewaythate[CO 2]isabletoincreaserootgrowth( Lee-Hoetal.,2007 ).Sugarsareimportantregulatorsinphosphatedeﬁcientplants.During phosphate starvation, carbohydrates are used to regul atevarious phosphate starvation induced (PSI) genes ( Karthikeyanet al., 2007 ). Glucose and fructose can stimulate PSI genesto an extent, however, optimal responses occur with sucrose.During phosphorus deﬁciency, sucrose is able to increase theexpression of a phosphate transporter gene ( LaPT1) and aphosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase gene ( LaPEPC3 ;Zhou et al.,2008). Sucrose also promotes growth of root hairs in phosphatedeﬁcient A. thaliana (Jain et al., 2007 ). The increased sugarproduction under e[CO 2] likely leads to lower inorganicphosphorus in plants due to the use of phosphorus in sugarssuch as triose phosphate, the synthesis of which will likelyincrease under e[CO 2]. The lower phosphorus concentrationthen becomes limiting in ATP synthesis and regeneration ofribulose bisphosphate ( Farquhar and Sharkey, 1982 ). Whetherthe increased sugar production under e[CO 2] provokes thesame expression of PSI genes mentioned above, is not currentl yknown.Researchhasshownthate[CO 2]increasestheexpressionof the phosphate uptake gene AtPHR1in phosphate deﬁcientArabidopsis plants (Niu et al., 2013 ), however, more research isneededtoelucidatetheroleofe[CO 2]insugarmediatedPSIgeneregulation.There may be many genes in the root that are unrelated tonutrient acquisition which are activated by a sugar signal. Forexample, almost every aspect of auxin metabolism appears tobe aﬀected or regulated by glucose. Out of 604 auxin regulatedgenes in A. thaliana , 376 (62%) are transcriptionally regulatedby glucose, which range in function from the biosynthesisof auxin to its transport, perception, and signaling ( Mishraet al., 2009 ). Amino acid synthesis may also be impactedby sugar sensing. Silvente et al. (2008) found that glucose,acting through hexokinase, increased production of asparagi nesynthetase in roots of common bean. This brings to light moreways that e[CO 2] could aﬀect root processes through sugarsensing. Research needs to be conducted in this area before an yconclusions can be drawn, however, given that e[CO 2] has beenshown to aﬀect sugar regulation of genes in roots ( Lejay et al.,2008), these ﬁndings show there is potential to ﬁnd that auxinmetabolism and amino acid synthesis can also be regulated tosomeextentbye[CO 2]throughsugarsensing.Under e[CO 2] conditions, Jauregui et al. (2015) found thatexpression of 48 genes of various functions, including geneslinkedwithphotosynthesis,hormones,andstress,wasaﬀecte dinA. thaliana roots, 95% of which were downregulated. The mainﬁnding of this study, however, showed that supplying e[CO 2]treatedA. thaliana plants with ammonium nitrate improvedplant protein content and maintained higher photosyntheticrates. This suggests that altering the nitrogen availabili ty ofplants may aﬀect the plant’s sugar sensing capabilities, asaltering the plant’s photosynthetic capacity will ultimately alterthe carbohydrate content of plants. The mechanism by whiche[CO2] aﬀected the 48 genes was not explored in the paperand as such, we don’t know whether they were aﬀected viasugar sensing pathways. The sugar content of the roots undere[CO2] did not diﬀer signiﬁcantly from roots of plants grownunder ambient [CO 2], however, there was a slight increasein sucrose content. Whether this small increase is enough toalter gene expression in roots is uncertain. Another possibil ityis that faster sugar catabolism may promote gene expression,however, the process is totally unknown and more research int othe eﬀect of e[CO 2] on gene expression in roots is required.Lowernutrientconcentrationingrainshasbeenwidelyrepor tedunder e[CO 2] (Taub et al., 2008; Högy et al., 2013; Fernandoetal.,2015 ),butwhetherthesedeclinesareassociatedwithsugarmediatedgeneexpressioncausingalterednutrientassimila tionisunknown.Elevated [CO 2] and Sugars Affect RootArchitectureStorage of the accumulated carbon under e[CO 2] is notconsistent across all plants. In some plants, e[CO 2] causes ashift in the shoot/root carbon ratio toward greater root car bon(Aljazairi et al., 2014 ). How this extra carbon aﬀects roots is notwell understood, however, understanding the extent that su garsaﬀectrootswillprovideastartingpointforresearchintotheeﬀe ctofe[CO 2]onroots.Elevated[CO 2]hasasimilareﬀectonrootgrowthasincreasedsucrose concentrations. This may suggest that the way in whi che[CO2] aﬀects root growth is through the increased sugarsallocated to roots. Elevated [CO 2] increases both total rootnumber and length in A. thaliana as well as root diameter ( Lee-Hoetal.,2007 ).Increasingsucroseconcentrationinplantsgrownunderambient[CO 2]alsogivesresultssimilartoe[CO 2](Lee-Hoetal.,2007 ).Elevated[CO 2]mayincreaserootgrowthinordertoFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 7 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar Sensingbalance nutrient uptake with the rate of sugar production fromincreasedphotosynthesisorperhapsalargerrootsystemactsa sasinktostoreexcesssugars.Gaining a better understanding of how e[CO 2] aﬀects thegrowth of roots could help explain the changes in nutrientstatus that occur under e[CO 2], such as the deﬁciencies ofiron and zinc in wheat ( Myers et al., 2014 ). With bothe[CO2] and sugars increasing plant root growth, you wouldexpect greater uptake rates of nutrients, thus relieving nutr ientdeﬁciencies. While there are other mechanisms that are aﬀect edby e[CO 2] that lead to nutrient deﬁciencies, their discussion isoutside the scope of this review. The role that roots play incausing or alleviating nutrient deﬁciencies needs to be fur therelucidated.The carbohydrate status of plants can strongly inﬂuenceroot architecture. For example, increasing concentrations ofthe hexoses glucose and fructose in the growing regions of A.thalianarootsarepositivelycorrelatedwithbothrootelongationrate and branching density ( Freixes et al., 2002 ). Not all hexoseswork to promote root elongation, however, as mannose inhibit sroot elongation by a signaling pathway initiated by hexokina se(Baskin et al., 2001 ). Galactose, another hexose, also inhibitedroot elongation in the study by Baskin et al. (2001) , but to alower extent. Psicose, an analog of fructose, is a third hexo secapable of inhibiting root growth. It was found to inhibit roo tgrowth of lettuce seedlings, however, in contrast with mann ose,it does not appear to cause the inhibition through a hexokinase -mediated pathway ( Kato-Noguchi et al., 2005 ). Elevated [CO 2]generallyincreasesrootgrowthinFACEandopen-topchamber s(OTC;Milchunas et al., 2005; De Graaﬀ et al., 2006 ). InSedumalfredii, e[CO2] is found to increase both root elongation andbranching ( Li et al., 2012 ), while other studies have found avariety of plant species show increased ﬁne root production(PritchardandRogers,2000;Tingeyetal.,2000 ).Ameta-analysisof FACE and OTCs found a general increase in root biomassin response to e[CO 2], where root length was increased morethan root diameter ( Nie et al., 2013 ). The meta-analysis alsofoundthatincreasedﬁnerootbiomasswasthemaincomponentof the total biomass increase. This may suggest that if e[CO 2]plays a role in the sugar stimulated increase in root growth,more carbon is partitioned into sugars such as glucose, whichis capable of increasing root growth, rather than psicose ormannose. Therefore, understanding how diurnal changes insugarcompositionisaﬀectedundere[CO 2]willprovideagreaterinsight into the role that sugars have on root growth and geneexpressioninresponsetoe[CO 2].The role of glucose in A. thaliana roots is not limitedto root elongation rate and branching density. It has alsodemonstrated the ability to control root growth direction i nA. thaliana , and it does this independently of changes in rootlength (Singh et al., 2014b ). The directional change induced byglucose occurs via both hexokinase dependent and independentmethods ( Singh et al., 2014b ). The hexokinase glucose sensingpathway also leads to increased lateral root production ( Guptaetal.,2015 ).Furthermore,rootmeristemactivationisstimulatedby glucose via a target-of-rapamycin (TOR) signaling network(Xiong et al., 2013 ). The control of root meristem activation bythe glucose-TOR interaction relies on glycolysis–mitochond rialenergy relays. This signal network in turn promotes rootgrowth.Sucrose has been identiﬁed as a necessary signal to stimulat eprimary root growth in A. thaliana seedlings, where thesucrose is transported to the roots from the cotyledons byway of the sucrose transporter SUC2 ( Kircher and Schopfer,2012). In addition, secondary root growth is also promotedby sucrose ( Freixes et al., 2002 ). Sucrose also has the abilityto rescue plants from certain factors which inhibit rootgrowth. The inhibition of root growth caused by both psicoseand mannose, as previously mentioned, is overcome by theaddition of sucrose ( Kato-Noguchi et al., 2005 ). This meansthat in plants that produce more sucrose under e[CO 2] thanhexoses, the inhibition by psicose and mannose is unlikelytooccur.As previously mentioned, sucrose is also involved inpromotinglateralrootprimordiaformation,however, Macgregoret al. (2008) argues that this regulation is caused by themetabolism of sucrose, rather than sucrose acting as a signal .Theyconcludedthisonthebasisthatsucroseanditsdownstrea mmetabolites glucose, fructose, and glucose-6-phosphate, allpromoted lateral root primordia formation, but the non-metabolized glucose analog 3- O-methyl glucose did not,combinedwiththeobservationthatexogenoussucrosepromote dlateral root primordia formation in the hexokinase mutant gin2.It could instead be argued that these sugars operate as signal sindependently of hexokinase, particularly sucrose which is no tsensed by hexokinase. Despite evidence that sugars promotelateral root development, a recent study concluded that sucr oseand glucose promote the expression of the A. thaliana WOX7gene, which inhibits lateral root growth ( Kong et al., 2016 ).Adding to the complexity surrounding the inﬂuence of sugarson regulatory pathways, auxin, a hormone that promotes latera lrootdevelopmentandisupregulatedbysugars,represses WOX7expression( Kongetal.,2016 ).Further aspects of the ability for sugars to control rootarchitecture are discussed in the next section, where cross talkwith various plant hormones is required to bring about change sinrootarchitecture.Elevated [CO 2] Mediates Sugar andHormone CrosstalkAlong with the ability for sugars to control gene expression a ndroot growth, they also are known to interact with hormones,extending their potential eﬀect as a signaling molecule. Forinstance, sucrose-mediated induction of the Nrtgene may bedue to its capability to crosstalk with auxin, a hormone which ,amongotherfunctions,regulatesthe A.thaliana nitratetransportgeneAtNrt1.1 (Guo et al., 2002 ). Exogenously introduced auxinstimulates AtNrt1.1transcriptionatthecommencementoflateralroot formation ( Guo et al., 2002 ). In addition to crosstalk withauxin, sucrose stimulates both auxin production and transpor tto roots ( Lilley et al., 2012 ). Glucose and sucrose are able toregulate the biosynthesis of the auxin called indole-3-ace tic acid(IAA), though sucrose has a greater eﬀect on IAA biosynthesisFrontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 8 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. C O2and Root Sugar Sensing(Sairanen et al., 2012). As such, by regulating the productionandtransportofauxin,sugarsareindirectlyinﬂuencingtheplantprocessesbroughtaboutbyauxin.Auxinalsoworkswithglucoseto promote formation of lateral roots in A. thaliana. In thepresenceofglucose,theformationofauxin-inducedlateralrootsis bimodal, where the number of lateral roots peaks at both lowand high concentrations, but not medium ( Booker et al., 2010).Glucose acts to inhibit the heterotrimeric G protein complex,which attenuates this bimodality (Booker et al., 2010). Auxinstimulates the cell cycle to promote lateral root initiation andalsoaﬀectsthefrequencyandpositionoflateralroots,dependingon the amount of auxin and the direction of its ﬂow in theroots (Himanen et al., 2002). This may contribute in part toglucose’s ability to promote lateral root growth, as discussed intheprevioussection,however,thisisunknown.Glucosecanalsocause root hair initiation and elongation, however, elongation isdecreasedintheabsenceofauxin( Mishraetal.,2009).Glucose interacts with another hormone, brassinosteroid,to stimulate lateral root formation. Brassinosteroid worksdownstreamoftheHXK1glucosesensingpathway(Guptaetal.,2015). This glucose and brassinosteroid mediated pathway alsoaﬀectsauxintransportmachineryduringlateralrootproduction(Gupta et al., 2015), thus contributing to the auxin-mediatedlateral root formation. Brassinosteroid also works with glucoseto control root growth direction (Singh et al., 2014b). It appearsthat polar auxin transport is also involved in glucose inducedroot growth direction, occurring downstream from glucose andbrassinosteroid (Singh et al., 2014b). Working antagonisticallyto this control of root growth direction, however, are ethyleneandcytokinin,which,togetherwithglucose,brassinosteroidandauxin,maymakeupasystemforcontrollingthegrowthdirectionof plant roots ( Singh et al., 2014a). Exposure of A . thaliana roottips to the hormone cytokinin promotes root growth via cellelongation (Kushwah et al., 2011). This root growth is furtherpromoted by the presence of glucose which operates throughhexokinase.Thereislimitedresearchfocusingontherelationshipbetweene[CO2] and plant hormones, however, several studies haveshown the eﬀect of e[CO 2] on hormone synthesis. Results fromHachiya et al. (2014) suggest that e[CO 2] can cause preferentialroot growth by increasing root IAA content. Increased sugarproductionundere[CO 2]appearstocauseincreasedbiosynthesisof IAA in shoots, which is subsequently transported to roots.That both sucrose and glucose are known to stimulate IAAbiosynthesis in roots under ambient [CO 2] could suggest thatthis is the mechanism used to cause the increase under e[CO 2].Auxin and sugars also appear to work together in roots ofiron (Fe)-deﬁcient plants. A recent study proposed a modelwherebyFe-deﬁciencyincreasessucrosecontentofroots,causingan increase in auxin and a subsequent increase in nitric oxide,ultimately causing FIT-mediated transcriptional regulation ofFRO2andIRT1genes and inducing Fe uptake ( Lin et al., 2016).If these genes are regulated by the increase of sucrose, then itstands to reason that an increase in sucrose content in rootsbrought about by e[CO 2] might bring about the same change.In a hydroponics study, IAA content in roots was increased bye[CO2] in tomato plants by 26.5% ( Wang et al., 2009). IAA wasnot the only hormone increased by e[CO 2]. They also foundethylenereleaseinrootswasincreasedby100%intomatoplantswhengrownundere[CO 2],showingthatstimulationofhormoneproduction under e[CO 2] is not limited to auxin. Ethylene wasalso found to be increased in rice plants grown in growthchambers under e[CO 2] (Seneweera et al., 2003). In addition toauxin and ethylene, jasmonic acid has also been reported to beregulatedundere[CO 2].However,asopposedtothestimulationof auxin and ethylene seen in other studies, the synthesis ofjasmonicacidwasrepressedbye[CO 2]inGuoetal.(2012).Thiswas, however, found to occur in leaves. Whether e[CO 2] aﬀectsjasmonicacidinrootsisunknown.Thatbothe[CO 2]andsugarshave been demonstrated to interact with plant hormones maysuggestthatinfutureclimates,thesugarsproducedundere[CO 2]mayactasintermediatesforhormonalcrosstalk.CONCLUDING REMARKSMuch is still unknown about how plants will react to e[CO 2]andwithnutrientdeﬁcienciesobservedinagriculturalcrops,thiswill become increasingly more important to understand. Theproduction of carbohydrates is increased in plants grown undere[CO2]duetoanincreaseinphotosynthesis.Somecarbohydratesare produced in higher quantities than others depending onthe plant, though production of sucrose is reportedly highercompared to hexoses. The studies discussed provide an insightinto how these sugars can be used to regulate many functionsin roots. Most of the information on sugar signaling discussesthe glucose and sucrose pathways. The amount of carbonpartitioned into either of those carbohydrates may be inpart determined by which carbohydrate the plant requiresto regulate speciﬁc genes, though this is unknown. Nutrientacquisition appears to be regulated by sugars, as evidencedby the regulation of expression of various ion transporters aswell as the ability for sugars to aﬀect root growth. Finally,both e[CO 2] and sugars are able to aﬀect the biosynthesisof certain plant hormones, which may suggest that sugarsfunction as an intermediate in e[CO 2] control of hormones.From these studies we can begin to think about what changesmight occur in roots of plants grown in future carbon dioxideconcentrations.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSMTwrotethemanuscript.SS,AM,NH,andDGeachcontributedto the design of the review as well as revision of drafts and theﬁnalmanuscript.FUNDINGThisworkwassupportedbyanAustralianGovernmentResearchTrainingProgramScholarship.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported by the University of SouthernQueensland.Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 9 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingREFERENCESAinsworth,E.A.,Leakey,A.D.B.,Ort,D.R.,andLong,S.P.(20 08).FACE-ingthefacts:inconsistenciesandinterdependenceamongﬁeld,chamber andmodelingstudies of elevated [CO 2] impacts on crop yield and food supply. New Phytol.179,5–9.doi:10.1111/j.1469-8137.2008.02500.xAinsworth, E. A., and Long, S. P. (2005). What have we learned from 15 years offree-air CO 2enrichment (FACE)? A meta-analytic review of the responses ofphotosynthesis, canopy properties and plant production to rising CO 2.NewPhytol.165,351–372.doi:10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01224.xAinsworth, E. A., Rogers, A., Blum, H., Nösberger, J., and Long, S . P. (2003).Variationinacclimationofphotosynthesisin Trifoliumrepens aftereightyearsof exposure to free air CO 2enrichment (FACE). J. Exp. Bot. 54, 2769–2774.doi:10.1093/jxb/erg309Ainsworth, E. A., Rogers, A., Nelson, R., and Long, S. P. (2004) . Testing the“source–sink” hypothesis of down-regulation of photosynthesi s in elevated[CO2] in the ﬁeld with single gene substitutions in Glycine max. Agric. ForestMeteorol. 122,85–94.doi:10.1016/j.agrformet.2003.09.002Aljazairi, S.,Arias,C.,and Nogues,S.(2014).Carbonand nitro gen allocation andpartitioning in traditional and modern wheat genotypes under pre-in dustrialandfutureCO 2conditions. PlantBiol. 17,647–659.doi:10.1111/plb.12280Andriunas, F. A., Zhang, H.-M., Weber, H., McCurdy, D. W., Oﬄer, C. E., andPatrick, J. W. (2011). Glucose and ethylene signalling pathways co nverge toregulate trans-diﬀerentiation of epidermal transfer cells in Vicia na rbonensiscotyledons. PlantJ.68,987–998.doi:10.1111/j.1365-313X.2011.04749.xAranjuelo, I., Cabrerizo, P. M., Arrese-Igor, C., and Aparicio-Tejo , P. M. (2013).Pea plant responsiveness under elevated [CO 2] is conditioned by the Nsource (N2 ﬁxation versus NO3 −fertilization). Environ. Exp. Bot. 95, 34–40.doi:10.1016/j.envexpbot.2013.06.002Aranjuelo, I., Irigoyen, J. J., Sánchez-Díaz, M., and Nogués, S . (2008). Carbonpartitioning in N2 ﬁxing Medicago sativa plants exposed to diﬀerent CO 2andtemperatureconditions. Funct.PlantBiol. 35,306–317.doi:10.1071/FP07296Baena-Gonzalez, E., Rolland, F., Thevelein, J. M., and Sheen, J. (2007). A centralintegrator of transcription networks in plant stress and energy sign alling.Nature448,938–942.doi:10.1038/nature06069Baskin, T. I., Remillong, E. L., and Wilson, J. E. (2001). The impact of mannoseandothercarbonsourcesontheelongationanddiameterofthepri maryrootofArabidopsisthaliana .Aust.J.PlantPhysiol. 28,481–488.doi:10.1071/PP01047Bloom, A. J., Burger, M., Kimball, B. A., and Pinter, P. J. Jr. (2014) . Nitrateassimilation is inhibited by elevated CO 2in ﬁeld-grown wheat. Nat. Clim.Change4,477–480.doi:10.1038/nclimate2183Booker, K. S., Schwarz, J., Garrett, M. B., and Jones, A. M. (2010 ). Glucoseattenuation of auxin-mediated bimodality in lateral root formation is partlycoupled by the heterotrimeric G protein complex. PLoS ONE 5:e12833.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0012833Broberg, M., Högy, P., and Pleijel, H. (2017). CO2-induced change s in wheatgrain composition: meta-analysis and response functions. Agronomy 7:32.doi:10.3390/agronomy7020032Bussell, J. D., Keech, O., Fenske, R., and Smith, S. M. (2013). Re quirement forthe plastidial oxidative pentose phosphate pathway for nitrate ass imilation inArabidopsis .PlantJ.75,578–591.doi:10.1111/tpj.12222Butterly,C.R.,Armstrong,R.,Chen,D.,andTang,C.(2015).Carb onandnitrogenpartitioning of wheat and ﬁeld pea grown with two nitrogen levels unde relevatedCO 2.PlantSoil 391,367–382.doi:10.1007/s11104-015-2441-5Camañes, G., Cerezo, M., Primo-Millo, E., Gojon, A., and García-Ag ustín,P. (2007). Ammonium transport and CitAMT1 expression are regulatedby light and sucrose in Citrus plants. J. Exp. Bot. 58, 2811–2825.doi:10.1093/jxb/erm135Canadell, J.G.,LeQuéré,C.,Raupach,M.R.,Field,C.B.,Buitenh uis,E.T.,Ciais,P., et al. (2007). Contributions to accelerating atmospheric CO 2growth fromeconomic activity, carbon intensity, and eﬃciency of natural sinks.Proc. Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A. 104,18866–18870.doi:10.1073/pnas.0702737104Cheng, S. H., Moore, B. D., and Seemann, J. R. (1998). Eﬀects of sh ort- andlong-term elevated CO 2on the expression of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphatecarboxylase/oxygenase genes and carbohydrate accumulation in leavesofArabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. Plant Physiol. 116, 715–723.doi:10.1104/pp.116.2.715Cheng, W.-H., Endo, A., Zhou, L., Penney, J., Chen, H.-C., Arroyo , A.,et al. (2002). A unique short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase in Arabidopsisglucose signaling and abscisic acid biosynthesis and aunctio ns.Plant Cell 14,2723–2743.doi:10.1105/tpc.006494De Graaﬀ, M.-A., Van Groenigen, K.-J., Six, J., Hungate, B., and Van Kessel,C. (2006). Interactions between plant growth and soil nutrient cy clingunder elevated CO 2: a meta-analysis. Glob. Change Biol. 12, 2077–2091.doi:10.1111/j.1365-2486.2006.01240.xde Jong, F., Thodey, K., Lejay, L. V., and Bevan, M. W. (2014). Glucoseelevates NITRATE TRANSPORTER2.1 protein levels and nitrate transpo rtactivity independently of its HEXOKINASE1-mediated stimulation o fNITRATE TRANSPORTER2.1 expression. Plant Physiol. 164, 308–320.doi:10.1104/pp.113.230599Dekkers, B. W., Schuurmans, J. M. J., and Smeekens, S. M. (2004). Glucosedelays seed germination in Arabidopsis thaliana .Planta218, 579–588.doi:10.1007/s00425-003-1154-9De Veylder, L., De Almeida Engler, J., Burssens, S., Manevski, A. , Lescure, B.,Van Montagu, M., et al. (1999). A new D-type cyclin of Arabidopsis thalianaexpressed during lateral root primordia formation. Planta208, 453–462.doi:10.1007/s004250050582Drake,B.G.,Gonzàlez-Meler,M.A.,andLong,S.P.(1997).Moree ﬃcientplants:aconsequenceofrisingatmosphericCO2? Annu.Rev.PlantPhysiol.PlantMol.Biol.48,609–639.doi:10.1146/annurev.arplant.48.1.609Farquhar, G. D., and Sharkey, T. D. (1982). Stomatal conductanc eand photosynthesis. Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. 33, 317–345.doi:10.1146/annurev.pp.33.060182.001533Feng, H., Yan, M., Fan, X., Li, B., Shen, Q., Miller, A. J., et al. (20 11). Spatialexpression and regulation of rice high-aﬃnity nitrate transporters b y nitrogenandcarbonstatus. J.Exp.Bot. 62,2319–2332.doi:10.1093/jxb/erq403Fernando, N., Panozzo, J., Tausz, M., Norton, R., Fitzgerald, G. , Khan, A.,et al. (2015). Rising CO 2concentration altered wheat grain proteomeand ﬂour rheological characteristics. Food Chem. 170, 448–454.doi:10.1016/j.foodchem.2014.07.044Figueroa,C.M.,Feil,R.,Ishihara, H.,Watanabe,M.,Kölling,K., Krause,U.,etal.(2016).Trehalose6–phosphatecoordinatesorganicandaminoacid metabolismwithcarbonavailability. PlantJ.85,410–423.doi:10.1111/tpj.13114Freixes, S., Thibaud, M. C., Tardieu, F., and Muller, B. (2002). R ootelongation and branching is related to local hexose concentrationinArabidopsis thaliana seedlings. Plant Cell Environ. 25, 1357–1366.doi:10.1046/j.1365-3040.2002.00912.xGeorge, K., Norby, R. J., Hamilton, J. G., and Delucia, E. H. (2003 ). Fine-rootrespiration in a loblolly pine and sweetgum forest growing in elevated CO 2.NewPhytol. 160,511–522.doi:10.1046/j.1469-8137.2003.00911.xGoldschmidt,E.E.,andHuber,S.C.(1992).Regulationofphotosy nthesisbyend-product accumulation in leaves of plants storing starch, sucrose, and hexosesugars.PlantPhysiol. 99,1443–1448.doi:10.1104/pp.99.4.1443Granot, D., David-Schwartz, R., and Kelly, G. (2013). Hexose kina ses andtheir role in sugar-sensing and plant development. Front. Plant Sci . 4:43.doi:10.3389/fpls.2013.00044Grimmer, C., Bachﬁscher, T., and Komor, E. (1999). Carbohydrate pa rtitioninginto starch in leaves of Ricinus communis L. grown under elevatedCO2is controlled by sucrose. Plant Cell Environ. 22, 1275–1280.doi:10.1046/j.1365-3040.1999.00481.xGuo, F. Q., Wang, R., and Crawford, N. M. (2002). The Arabidopsis dual-aﬃnitynitratetransportergeneAtNRT1.1(CHL1)isregulatedbyauxininbo thshootsandroots. J.Exp.Bot. 53,835–844.doi:10.1093/jexbot/53.370.835Guo, H., Sun, Y., Ren, Q., Zhu-Salzman, K., Kang, L., Wang, C., et al. (2012).Elevated CO 2reduces the resistance and tolerance of tomato plants toHelicoverpa armigera by suppressing the JA signaling pathway. PLoS ONE7:e41426.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0041426Gupta, A., Singh, M., and Laxmi, A. (2015). Interaction between glucoseand brassinosteroid during the regulation of lateral root development i nArabidopsis .PlantPhysiol. 168,307–320.doi:10.1104/pp.114.256313Hachiya,T.,Sugiura,D.,Kojima,M.,Sato,S.,Yanagisawa,S. ,Sakakibara,H.,etal.(2014). High CO 2triggers preferential root growth of Arabidopsis thaliana viatwo distinct systems under low pH and low N stresses. Plant Cell Physiol. 55,269–280.doi:10.1093/pcp/pcu001Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 10 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingHimanen, K., Boucheron, E., Vanneste, S., De Almeida Engler, J., In zé, D., andBeeckman, T. (2002). Auxin-mediated cell cycle activation durin g early lateralrootinitiation. PlantCell 14,2339–2351.doi:10.1105/tpc.004960Högy, P., Brunnbauer, M., Koehler, P., Schwadorf, K., Breuer, J. , Franzaring,J., et al. (2013). Grain quality characteristics of spring wheat ( Triticumaestivum)asaﬀectedbyfree-airCO 2enrichment. Environ.Exp.Bot. 88,11–18.doi:10.1016/j.envexpbot.2011.12.007Högy,P.,andFangmeier,A.(2008).Eﬀectsofelevatedatmospheric CO2ongrainqualityofwheat. J.CerealSci. 48,580–591.doi:10.1016/j.jcs.2008.01.006Jain, A., Poling, M. D., Karthikeyan, A. S., Blakeslee, J. J., Pee r, W. A.,Titapiwatanakun, B., et al. (2007). Diﬀerential eﬀects of sucro se and auxinon localized phosphate deﬁciency-induced modulation of diﬀerent t raitsof root system architecture in Arabidopsis .Plant Physiol. 144, 232–247.doi:10.1104/pp.106.092130Jang, J. C., and Sheen, J. (1994). Sugar sensing in higher plant s.Plant Cell 6,1665–1679.doi:10.1105/tpc.6.11.1665Jauregui, I., Aparicio-Tejo, P. M., Avila, C., Rueda-López, M., a nd Aranjuelo, I.(2015).Rootandshootperformanceof Arabidopsisthaliana exposedtoelevatedCO2: a physiologic, metabolic and transcriptomic response. J. Plant Physiol.189,65–76.doi:10.1016/j.jplph.2015.09.012Jayawardena, D. M., Heckathorn, S. A., Bista, D. R., Mishra, S., B oldt, J. K., andKrause, C. R. (2017). Elevated CO 2plus chronic warming reduce nitrogenuptakeandlevelsoractivities ofnitrogen-uptakeand-assimilato ryproteinsintomatoroots. Physiol.Plant. 159,354–365.doi:10.1111/ppl.12532Karthikeyan, A. S., Varadarajan, D. K., Jain, A., Held, M. A., Carpit a,N. C., and Raghothama, K. G. (2007). Phosphate starvation respon sesare mediated by sugar signaling in Arabidopsis .Planta225, 907–918.doi:10.1007/s00425-006-0408-8Kato-Noguchi,H.,Takaoka,T.,andIzumori,K.(2005).Psicose inhibitslettucerootgrowth via a hexokinase-independent pathway. Physiol. Plant. 125, 293–298.doi:10.1111/j.1399-3054.2005.00565.xKircher, S., and Schopfer, P. (2012). Photosynthetic sucrose acts as cotyledon-derived long-distance signal to control root growth during early see dlingdevelopment in Arabidopsis .Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 109, 11217–11221.doi:10.1073/pnas.1203746109Kong,D.,Hao,Y.,andCui,H.(2016).TheWUSCHELrelatedhomeoboxpro teinWOX7regulatesthesugarresponseoflateralrootdevelopmentin Arabidopsisthaliana.Mol.Plant. 9,261–270.doi:10.1016/j.molp.2015.11.006Kushwah,S.,Jones,A.M.,andLaxmi,A.(2011).Cytokininint erplaywithethylene,auxin, and glucose signaling controls Arabidopsis seedling root directionalgrowth.PlantPhysiol. 156,1851–1866.doi:10.1104/pp.111.175794Lee-Ho, E., Walton, L. J., Reid, D. M., Yeung, E. C., and Kurepin, L . V.(2007). Eﬀects of elevated carbon dioxide and sucrose concent rations onArabidopsis thaliana root architecture and anatomy. Can. J. Bot. 85, 324–330.doi:10.1139/B07-009Lejay, L., Gansel, X., Cerezo, M., Tillard, P., Müller, C., Krapp, A., et a l. (2003).Regulation of root ion transporters by photosynthesis: functiona l importanceand relation with hexokinase. Plant Cell 15, 2218–2232. doi: 10.1105/tpc.013516Lejay, L., Tillard, P., Lepetit, M., Olive, F. D., Filleur, S., Danie l-Vedele, F.,et al. (1999). Molecular and functional regulation of two NO 3−uptakesystems by N- and C-status of Arabidopsis plants.Plant J. 18, 509–519.doi:10.1046/j.1365-313X.1999.00480.xLejay, L., Wirth, J., Pervent, M., Cross, J. M., Tillard, P., and Go jon, A.(2008). Oxidative pentose phosphate pathway-dependent sugar se nsing as amechanism for regulation of root ion transporters by photosynthesis .PlantPhysiol.146,2036–2053.doi:10.1104/pp.107.114710Li, T., Di, Z., Han, X., and Yang, X. (2012). Elevated CO 2improves root growthandcadmiumaccumulationinthehyperaccumulator Sedumalfredii .PlantSoil354,325–334.doi:10.1007/s11104-011-1068-4Lilley, J. L. S., Gee, C. W., Sairanen, I., Ljung, K., and Nemhause r,J. L. (2012). An endogenous carbon-sensing pathway triggers i ncreasedauxin ﬂux and hypocotyl elongation. Plant Physiol. 160, 2261–2270.doi:10.1104/pp.112.205575Lin,X.Y.,Ye,Y.Q.,Fan,S.K.,Jin,C.W.,andZheng,S.J.(201 6).Increasedsucroseaccumulationregulatesiron-deﬁciencyresponsesbypromotingauxins ignalinginArabidopsis plants.PlantPhysiol. 170,907–920.doi:10.1104/pp.15.01598Ludewig, F., and Sonnewald, U. (2000). High CO2 mediated down-regulation of photosynthetic gene transcripts is caused by accelera tedleaf senescence rather than sugar accumulation. FEBS Lett. 479, 19–24.doi:10.1016/S0014-5793(00)01873-1Lunn, J. E., Delorge, I., Figueroa, C. M., Van Dijck, P., and Sti tt, M. (2014).Trehalosemetabolisminplants. PlantJ.79,544–567.doi:10.1111/tpj.12509Lunn, J. E., Feil, R., Hendriks, J. H., Gibon, Y., Morcuende, R., O suna, D., et al.(2006). Sugar-induced increases in trehalose 6-phosphate are corre lated withredox activation of ADPglucose pyrophosphorylase and higher rates of starchsynthesisin Arabidopsisthaliana .Biochem.J. 397,139–148.doi:10.1042/BJ20060083Macgregor, D. R., Deak, K. I., Ingram, P. A., and Malamy, J. E. (2008 ). Rootsystem architecture in Arabidopsis grown in culture is regulated by sucroseuptake in the aerial tissues. Plant Cell 20, 2643–2660. doi: 10.1105/tpc.107.055475Makino, A., Harada, M., Sato, T., Nakano, H., and Mae, T. (1997) . Growth and Nallocation in rice plants under CO 2enrichment. Plant Physiol. 115, 199–203.doi:10.1104/pp.115.1.199Makino, A., and Mae, T. (1999). Photosynthesis and plant growthat elevated levels of CO 2.Plant Cell Physiol. 40, 999–1006.doi:10.1093/oxfordjournals.pcp.a029493Martins, M. C. M., Hejazi, M., Fettke, J., Steup, M., Feil, R., Krau se, U.,et al. (2013). Feedback inhibition of starch degradation in Arabidopsisleaves mediated by trehalose 6-phosphate. Plant Physiol. 163, 1142–1163.doi:10.1104/pp.113.226787Meehl,G.A.,Stocker,T.F.,Collins,W.D.,Friedlingstein,P.,G aye,A.T.,Gregory,J. M., et al. (2007). “Global climate projections,” in Climate Change 2007:The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I t o the FourthAssessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climat e Change, eds S.Solomon, D. Qin, M. Manning, Z. Chen, M. Marquis, K. B. Averyt, M. T ignor,andH.L.Miller(Cambridge,NY:CambridgeUniversityPress),747–845 .Milchunas, D. G., Mosier, A. R., Morgan, J. A., Lecain, D. R., K ing, J. Y., andNelson, J. A. (2005). Root production and tissue quality in a short grass steppeexposed to elevated CO 2: using a new ingrowth method. Plant Soil 268,111–122.doi:10.1007/s11104-004-0230-7Mironov, V., De Veylder, L., Van Montagu, M., and Inzé, D. (1999 ). Cyclin-dependent kinases and cell division in plants—the nexus. Plant Cell 11,509–521.doi:10.1105/tpc.11.4.509Mishra, B. S., Singh, M., Aggrawal, P., and Laxmi, A. (2009). Gluco se and auxinsignaling interaction in controlling Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings root growthanddevelopment. PLoSONE 4:e4502.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0004502Moore, B., Zhou, L., Rolland, F., Hall, Q., Cheng, W.-H., Liu, Y.-X., et al. (2003).Role of the Arabidopsis glucose sensor HXK1 in nutrient, light, and hormonalsignaling. Science300,332–336.doi:10.1126/science.1080585Myers, S. S., Zanobetti, A., Kloog, I., Huybers, P., Leakey, A. D. B., Bloom, A. J.,etal.(2014).IncreasingCO 2threatenshumannutrition. Nature510,139–142.doi:10.1038/nature13179Nie, M., Lu, M., Bell, J., Raut, S., and Pendall, E. (2013). Altered ro ot traitsdue to elevated CO 2: a meta-analysis. Glob. Ecol. Biogeogr. 22, 1095–1105.doi:10.1111/geb.12062Nieuwland, J., Maughan, S., Dewitte, W., Scoﬁeld, S., Sanz, L. , and Murray, J.A. H. (2009). The D-type cyclin CYCD4;1 modulates lateral root densit y inArabidopsisbyaﬀectingthebasalmeristemregion. Proc.Natl.Acad.Sci.U.S.A.106,22528–22533.doi:10.1073/pnas.0906354106Niu, Y., Chai, R., Dong, H., Wang, H., Tang, C., and Zhang, Y. (20 13). Eﬀect ofelevated CO( 2) on phosphorus nutrition of phosphate-deﬁcient Arabidopsisthaliana(L.) Heynh under diﬀerent nitrogen forms. J. Exp. Bot. 64, 355–367.doi:10.1093/jxb/ers341Nukarinen, E., Nägele, T., Pedrotti, L., Wurzinger, B., Mair, A. , Landgraf, R., et al.(2016). Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals the role of the AMPK pla ntorthologSnRK1asametabolicmasterregulatorunderenergydeprivati on.Sci.Rep.6:31697.doi:10.1038/srep31697Nunes, C., Primavesi, L. F., Patel, M. K., Martinez-Barajas, E., P owers, S.J., Sagar, R., et al. (2013). Inhibition of SnRK1 by metabolites : tissue-dependent eﬀects and cooperative inhibition by glucose 1-phospha te incombination with trehalose 6-phosphate. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 63, 89–98.doi:10.1016/j.plaphy.2012.11.011Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 11 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingOno, F., Frommer, W. B., and Von Wirén, N. (2000). Coordinated diurn alregulation of low- and high-aﬃnity nitrate transporters in tomato. Plant Biol.2,17–23.doi:10.1055/s-2000-297Pandey,R.,Dubey,K.K.,Ahmad,A.,Nilofar,R.,Verma,R.,Jain, V.,etal.(2015).Elevated CO 2improves growth and phosphorus utilization eﬃciency in cerealspecies under sub-optimal phosphorus supply. J. Plant Nutr. 38, 1196–1217.doi:10.1080/01904167.2014.983116Peterhansel,C.,Horst,I.,Niessen,M.,Blume,C.,Kebeish,R., Kürkcüoglu,S.,etal.(2010).Photorespiration. ArabidopsisBook 8:e0130.doi:10.1199/tab.0130Pokhilko, A., Flis, A., Sulpice, R., Stitt, M., and Ebenhoh, O. (2 014). Adjustmentof carbon ﬂuxes to light conditions regulates the daily turnover o f starch inplants:acomputationalmodel. Mol.Biosyst. 10,613–627.doi:10.1039/C3MB70459APoorter, H., Bühler, J., van Dusschoten, D., Climent, J., and Post ma, J. A. (2012).Pot size matters: a meta-analysis of the eﬀects of rooting volume on plantgrowth.Funct.PlantBiol. 39,839–850.doi:10.1071/FP12049Price, J., Laxmi, A., St. Martin, S. K., and Jang, J.-C. (2004). G lobal transcriptionproﬁlingrevealsmultiplesugarsignaltransductionmechanismsinarabid opsis.PlantCell 16,2128–2150.doi:10.1105/tpc.104.022616Pritchard, S. G., and Rogers, H. H. (2000). Spatial and temporal deployme ntof crop roots in CO 2-enriched environments. New Phytol. 147, 55–71.doi:10.1046/j.1469-8137.2000.00678.xRiou-Khamlichi, C., Menges, M., Healy, J. M., and Murra, J. A. (2000 ).Sugar control of the plant cell cycle: diﬀerential regulation ofArabidopsis D-type cyclin gene expression. Mol. Cell. Biol. 20, 4513–4521.doi:10.1128/MCB.20.13.4513-4521.2000Rogers, A., Allen, D. J., Davey, P. A., Morgan, P. B., Ainsworth, E. A., Bernacchi,C. J., et al. (2004). Leaf photosynthesis and carbohydrate dyna mics ofsoybeans grown throughout their life-cycle under free-air carbo n dioxideenrichment. PlantCellEnviron. 27,449–458.doi:10.1111/j.1365-3040.2004.01163.xRolland, F.,Baena-Gonzalez, E.,and Sheen, J.(2006).Sugarse nsingand signalinginplants:conservedandnovelmechanisms. Annu.Rev.PlantBiol. 57,675–709.doi:10.1146/annurev.arplant.57.032905.105441Rook, F., Corke, F., Card, R., Munz, G., Smith, C., and Bevan, M. W . (2001).Impaired sucrose-induction mutants reveal the modulation of sugar- inducedstarch biosynthetic gene expression by abscisic acid signallin g.Plant J.26,421–433.doi:10.1046/j.1365-313X.2001.2641043.xSairanen, I., Novák, O., P ˇenˇcík, A., Ikeda, Y., Jones, B., Sandberg, G., et al.(2012). Soluble carbohydrates regulate auxin biosynthesis via P IF proteins inArabidopsis .PlantCell 24,4907–4916.doi:10.1105/tpc.112.104794Salsman, K. J., Jordan, D. N., Smith, S. D., and Neuman, D. S. (1999) . Eﬀect ofatmospheric CO 2enrichment on root growth and carbohydrate allocation ofPhaseolus spp.Int.J.PlantSci. 160,1075–1081.doi:10.1086/314208Sasaki, H., Hara, T., Ito, S., Uehara, N., Kim, H.-Y., Lieﬀering, M., et al.(2007). Eﬀect of free-air CO 2enrichment on the storage of carbohydrateﬁxed at diﬀerent stages in rice ( Oryza sativa L.).Field Crops Res. 100, 24–31.doi:10.1016/j.fcr.2006.05.003Seneweera, S., Aben, S. K., Basra, A. S., Jones, B., and Conroy, J . P. (2003).Involvement of ethylene in the morphological and developmental responseof rice to elevated atmospheric CO 2concentrations. Plant Growth Regul. 39,143–153.doi:10.1023/A:1022525918305Seneweera, S., Makino, A., Hirotsu, N., Norton, R., and Suzuki, Y . (2011).New insight into photosynthetic acclimation to elevated CO 2: the role ofleaf nitrogen and ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygen ase content inrice leaves. Environ. Exp. Bot. 71, 128–136. doi: 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2010.11.002Seneweera, S. P., Basra, A. S., Barlow, E. W., and Conroy, J. P. (199 5).Diurnal regulation of leaf blade elongation in rice by CO 2(is it relatedto sucrose-phosphate synthase activity?). Plant Physiol. 108, 1471–1477.doi:10.1104/pp.108.4.1471Seneweera, S. P., and Conroy, J. P. (2005). Enhanced leaf elongat ionrates of wheat at elevated CO 2: is it related to carbon and nitrogendynamics within the growing leaf blade? Environ. Exp. Bot. 54, 174–181.doi:10.1016/j.envexpbot.2004.07.002Sheen, J. (2014). Master regulators in plant glucose signaling net works.J. PlantBiol.57,67–79.doi:10.1007/s12374-014-0902-7Silvente, S., Reddy, P. M., Khandual, S., Blanco, L., Alvarado-Aﬀ antranger, X.,Sanchez, F., et al. (2008). Evidence for sugar signalling in the regulation ofasparagine synthetase gene expressed in Phaseolus vulgaris roots and nodules.J.Exp.Bot. 59,1279–1294.doi:10.1093/jxb/ern034Singh,M.,Gupta,A.,andLaxmi,A.(2014a).Glucoseandphytohormo neinterplayin controlling root directional growth in Arabidopsis .Plant Signal. Behav.9:e29219.doi:10.4161/psb.29219Singh, M., Gupta, A., and Laxmi, A. (2014b). Glucose control of roo tgrowth direction in Arabidopsis thaliana .J. Exp. Bot. 65, 2981–2993.doi:10.1093/jxb/eru146Smith, A. M., Zeeman, S. C., and Smith, S. M. (2005). Starch degrad ation.Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 56, 73–89. doi: 10.1146/annurev.arplant.56.032604.144257Sulpice, R., Flis, A., Ivakov, A. A., Apelt, F., Krohn, N., Encke, B. , et al.(2014).Arabidopsis coordinates the diurnal regulation of carbon allocationand growth across a wide range of photoperiods. Mol. Plant 7, 137–155.doi:10.1093/mp/sst127Suter, D., Frehner, M., Fischer, B. U., Nösberger, J., and Lüsc he, A.(2002). Elevated CO 2increases carbon allocation to the roots ofLolium perenne under free-air CO 2enrichment but not in a controlledenvironment. New Phytol. 154, 65–75. doi: 10.1046/j.1469-8137.2002.00368.xTans, P., and Keeling, R. (2016). Trends in Atmospheric Carbon Dioxide [Online] .NOAA.Availableonlineat:http://www.esrl.noaa.gov/gmd/ccgg/t rendsTaub,D.R.,Miller,B.,andAllen,H.(2008).EﬀectsofelevatedCO 2ontheproteinconcentration of food crops: a meta-analysis. Glob. Change Biol. 14, 565–575.doi:10.1111/j.1365-2486.2007.01511.xTaub, D. R., and Wang, X. (2008). Why are nitrogen concentrations in planttissues lower under elevated CO 2? A critical examination of the hypotheses.J. Integr. Plant Biol. 50, 1365–1374. doi: 10.1111/j.1744-7909.2008.00754.xTingey,D.T.,Phillips,D.L.,andJohnson,M.G.(2000).Elevate dCO2andconiferroots: eﬀects on growth, life span and turnover. New Phytol. 147, 87–103.doi:10.1046/j.1469-8137.2000.00684.xvan der Kooi, C. J., Reich, M., Löw, M., De Kok, L. J., and Tausz , M. (2016).GrowthandyieldstimulationunderelevatedCO 2anddrought:ameta-analysison crops. Environ. Exp. Bot. 122, 150–157. doi: 10.1016/j.envexpbot.2015.10.004Vicente, R., Pérez, P., Martínez-Carrasco, R., Feil, R., Lunn, J. E., Watanabe,M., et al. (2016). Metabolic and transcriptional analysis of durum w heatresponses to elevated CO 2at low and high nitrate supply. Plant Cell Physiol.57,2133–2146.doi:10.1093/pcp/pcw131Vicente, R., Pérez, P., Martínez-Carrasco, R., Gutiérrez, E., and Morcuende,R. (2015a). Nitrate supply and plant development inﬂuence nitrogenuptake and allocation under elevated CO 2in durum wheat grownhydroponically. Acta Physiol. Plant. 37:114. doi: 10.1007/s11738-015-1867-yVicente, R., Pérez, P., Martínez-Carrasco, R., Usadel, B., Kosta dinova, S., andMorcuende, R. (2015b). Quantitative RT–PCR platform to measure t ranscriptlevelsofCandNmetabolism-relatedgenesindurumwheat:transcriptproﬁle sin elevated [CO 2] and high temperature at diﬀerent levels of N supply. PlantCellPhysiol. 56,1556–1573.doi:10.1093/pcp/pcv079Wang, D., Heckathorn, S. A., Wang, X., and Philpott, S. M. (2012). A meta-analysis of plant physiological and growth responses to temperatureand elevated CO 2.Oecologia 169, 1–13. doi: 10.1007/s00442-011-2172-0Wang, Y., Du, S.-T., Li, L.-L., Huang, L.-D., Fang, P., Lin, X.- Y., et al.(2009). Eﬀect of CO 2elevation on root growth and its relationship withindole acetic acid and ethylene in tomato seedlings. Pedosphere 19, 570–576.doi:10.1016/S1002-0160(09)60151-XWarren,J.M.,Jensen,A.M.,Medlyn,B.E.,Norby,R.J.,andTiss ue,D.T.(2014).Carbon dioxide stimulation of photosynthesis in Liquidambar styraciﬂuais not sustained during a 12-year ﬁeld experiment. AoB Plants 7:plu074.doi:10.1093/aobpla/plu074Xiong,Y.,McCormack,M.,Li,L.,Hall,Q.,Xiang,C.,andSheen,J.( 2013).Glucose-TORsignallingreprogramsthetranscriptomeandactivatesmeristems. Nature496,181–186.doi:10.1038/nature12030Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 12 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578Thompson et al. CO2and Root Sugar SensingYadav, U. P., Ivakov, A., Feil, R., Duan, G. Y., Walther, D., Giav alisco, P.,et al. (2014). The sucrose–trehalose 6-phosphate (Tre6P) nexus: spe ciﬁcityand mechanisms of sucrose signalling by Tre6P. J. Exp. Bot. 65, 1051–1068.doi:10.1093/jxb/ert457Zhang,Y.,Primavesi,L.F.,Jhurreea,D.,Andralojc,P.J.,Mitche ll,R.A.C.,Powers,S. J., et al. (2009). Inhibition of SNF1-related protein kinase1 a ctivity andregulationofmetabolicpathwaysbytrehalose-6-phosphate. PlantPhysiol. 149,1860–1871.doi:10.1104/pp.108.133934Zhou, K., Yamagishi, M., Osaki, M., and Masuda, K. (2008). Sug ar signallingmediates cluster root formation and phosphorus starvation-induced geneexpressioninwhitelupin. J.Exp.Bot. 59,2749–2756.doi:10.1093/jxb/ern130Conﬂict of Interest Statement: The authors declare that the research wasconducted in the absence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relations hips that couldbeconstruedasapotentialconﬂictofinterest.Copyright © 2017 Thompson, Gamage, Hirotsu, Martin and Seneweer a. This is anopen-accessarticledistributedunderthetermsoftheCrea tiveCommonsAttributionLicense(CCBY).Theuse,distributionorreproductioninot herforumsispermitted,provided the original author(s) or licensor are credited an d that the originalpublication in this journal is cited, in accordance with acc epted academic practice.No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which doe s not comply with theseterms.Frontiers in Physiology | www.frontiersin.org 13 August 2017 | Volume 8 | Article 578