Evidence for the primacy of living root inputs, not root or shootlitter, in forming soil organic carbonNoah W. Sokol1, Sara. E. Kuebbing1,2, Elena Karlsen-Ayala1and Mark A. Bradford11School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University, 195 Prospect St, New Haven, CT 06511, USA;2Department of Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, 4249 FifthAvenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USAAuthor for correspondence:Noah W. SokolTel: +1 203 436 9148Email: noah.sokol@yale.eduReceived: 3 April 2018Accepted: 12 June 2018New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246doi: 10.1111/nph.15361Key words: carbon cycle, litter inputs, livingroots, microbial biomass, natural-abundance13C tracer, rhizodeposition, soil carbonformation, soil organic matter.Summary/C15Soil organic carbon (SOC) is primarily formed from plant inputs, but the relative carbon (C)contributions from living root inputs (i.e. rhizodeposits) vs litter inputs (i.e. root + shoot litter)are poorly understood. Recent theory suggests that living root inputs exert a disproportionateinﬂuence on SOC formation, but few ﬁeld studies have explicitly tested this by separatelytracking living root vs litter inputs as they move through the soil food web and into distinctSOC pools./C15We used a manipulative ﬁeld experiment with an annual C 4grass in a forest understory todifferentially track its living root vs litter inputs into the soil and to assess net SOC formationover multiple years./C15We show that living root inputs are 2 –13 times more efﬁcient than litter inputs in formingboth slow-cycling, mineral-associated SOC as well as fast-cycling, particulate organic C. Fur-thermore, we demonstrate that living root inputs are more efﬁciently anabolized by the soilmicrobial community en route to the mineral-associated SOC pool (dubbed ‘the in vivomicrobial turnover pathway’)./C15Overall, our ﬁndings provide support for the primacy of living root inputs in forming SOC.However, we also highlight the possibility of nonadditive effects of living root and litter inputs,which may deplete SOC pools despite greater SOC formation rates.IntroductionSoil organic carbon (SOC), the Earth’s largest terrestrial carbon(C) reservoir, is predominantly supplied by plant inputs to thesoil. Yet the link between plant C and SOC is the most poorlyunderstood portion of the terrestrial C cycle, as substantial uncer-tainty surrounds the relative contributions of root vs shoot inputsto soil food webs and SOC pools (Pollierer et al., 2007; Jacksonet al., 2017). This is a critical knowledge gap, as the type and pro-portion of above- and below-ground plant C inputs entering thesoil can be dramatically altered by a suite of global change factors,such as CO2enrichment (e.g. Phillips et al., 2012), plant inva-sions (e.g. Peltzer et al., 2010) and nitrogen (N) deposition (e.g.Dijkstra et al., 2004). Predicting the future behavior of the SOCpool must therefore be premised on a basic, empirical under-standing of which sources of plant material are efﬁciently incor-porated into protected, mineral-associated SOC pools, vs thosewhich are more rapidly mineralized to CO2by the soil microbialcommunity (Harden et al., 2017).A growing body of work emphasizes the importance ofroot-related inputs as sources of C to the SOC pool (Schmidtet al., 2011; Clemmensen et al., 2013; Jackson et al., 2017). Thisperspective directly contrasts with the historical view of SOC for-mation that focused primarily on the contributions from above-ground structural plant litter, deposited as layers of organic mate-rial to the soil surface (Rasse et al., 2005). In the root-centric viewof SOC formation, much attention has speciﬁcally been focusedon living root inputs –most notably, the organic compoundswhich enter continuously during the growing season into the sur-rounding rhizosphere soil (i.e. rhizodeposition) (van Hees et al.,2002; H €ogberg & Read, 2006; Bradford et al., 2008). Eventhough living root inputs generally constitute only a relativelysmall proportion of a plant’s total photoassimilate relative to rootand shoot structural litter (Pausch & Kuzyakov, 2017), they areposited to exert a disproportionate inﬂuence on the formation ofslower-cycling, mineral-associated SOC. Structural litter inputs,by contrast, are thought to preferentially supply the faster-cycling, particulate organic C pool (Cotrufo et al., 2015).The combination of the biochemical quality of living rootinputs, and the direct and intimate associations they experiencewith rhizosphere microbes and mineral surfaces, are theorized topromote more efﬁcient formation of SOC per unit of C thanfrom either shoot or root structural litter inputs (Rasse et al.,2005; Jackson et al., 2017). For example, labile dissolved organicC (DOC) compounds (e.g. simple sugars) in rhizodeposition arerapidly anabolized by the dense rhizosphere microbial commu-nity –a key precursor to the formation of microbially derived,mineral-associated SOC (Bradford et al., 2013; Cotrufo et al.,/C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 233www.newphytologist.comResearch2013; Kallenbach et al., 2016). Thus, through the ‘ in vivo micro-bial turnover pathway’ of SOC formation ( sensu Liang et al.,2017), these living root compounds should efﬁciently form min-eral-associated SOC via organo-mineral associations with the sur-rounding mineral soil (Rasse et al., 2005; Bradford et al., 2013;Pett-Ridge & Firestone, 2017). At the same time, however, sev-eral types of living root input (e.g. oxalic acid in root exudates)are also known to potentially accelerate the decomposition ofSOC via a rhizosphere priming effect (Finzi et al., 2015;Keiluweit et al., 2015). To accurately quantify the net C contri-bution of living root inputs vs litter inputs into the mineral soil,it is therefore necessary to differentially track these two sources ofinput into the soil over time scales that are relevant to the pro-cesses of SOC formation and loss.Yet, there is a notable lack of ﬁeld studies that track the full Cﬂux of living root inputs vs shoot and root litter through the soilfood web and into distinct SOC pools (Paterson et al.,2 0 0 9 ) .I nlarge part, this is because it is notoriously difﬁcult to measure thefull C contributions from living roots over a plant’s life cycle(Pausch & Kuzyakov, 2017). One of the main approaches used toquantify living root inputs is13C pulse-labeling, which capturesthe fate of rhizodeposition during a deﬁned time frame. Whilepulse-labeling provides high-resolution insight into the transfer ofliving root C through different soil pathways (Phillips & Fahey,2005), it is tied to the period of labeling, and thus does notprovide data on a whole plant’s C ﬂux (Kuzyakov & Schnecken-berger, 2006; Paterson et al., 2009). An alternative approach hasbeen the use of a uniform label either through continuous, steadystate labeling (Dijkstra & Cheng, 2007), or using the13C naturalabundance differences found between C 3and C 4plants (Kattereret al., 2011; Ghafoor et al., 2017). However, few studies have capi-talized on this latter approach to explicitly separate living root vsroot and shoot litter inputs into soil C pools over multiple years –especially outside of an agricultural context (Jackson et al.,2 0 1 7 ) .Here, we conducted a ﬁeld experiment with a C4annual grassin a temperate forest ecosystem dominated by C 3plants. Wemanipulated the living roots and litter inputs of the C 4grass overseveral of its life cycles, to track its C inputs through time. Specif-ically, we used the invasive forest understory grass Microstegiumvimineum (Trin.) A. Camus, which is an ideal study species forseveral reasons. First, as an annual plant with a small and shallowroot biomass ( c.2–8% of total biomass) and minimal ﬁne roots(Ehrenfeld et al., 2001), its entire litter inputs (i.e. shoot +rootlitter) can be easily manipulated. Second, within the eastern USforests which it invades, its C has been shown to be readily usedby the soil microbial community and the soil food web (Bradfordet al., 2012; Tang et al., 2012), and is thus an effective modelplant through which to investigate forest soil C cycling processes(Paterson et al., 2009). Third, because M. vimineum is a C4plantthat often invades forest stands which consist entirely of C 3vege-tation, stable isotope ratios can be used to precisely track itscarbon inputs through the soil microbial biomass, soil fauna, andinto SOC pools (Strickland et al., 2010; Kramer et al., 2012;Tang et al., 2012).For this study, we isolated the living root inputs vs litter inputs(shoot +root) of M. vimineum by establishing three differentmanipulative treatments: (1) M. vimineum living root and litterinputs (i.e. unaltered plants), (2) M. vimineum living root inputsonly (i.e. living plants, remo ved post-senescence) and (3)M. vimineum litter inputs only (i.e. senesced root +shoot litter) (seeFig. 1) .Through this design, we sought to untangle the relativeimportance of living root vs litter inputs in supplying soil food websand SOC pools. We predicted that, consistent with emerging the-ory (Cotrufo et al., 2015; Jackson et al., 2017), we would observetwo primary pathways of plant C tr ansfer to the soil: living rootinputs would preferentially supp ly the more protected, mineral-associated SOC pool via the soil microbial biomass, whereas rootand shoot litter inputs would pred ominantly supply the particularorganic carbon (POC) pool an d the decomposer food web.Materials and MethodsSite and experimental designWe conducted the study in a mixed hardwood, temperate forestin North Branford, Connecticut, USA (41 °210N, 72 °470W;11.2°C mean annual temperature, 119.7 cm mean annual precip-itation). Dominant tree species include Acer rubrum L.,A. saccharum Marsh .,Carya ovata (Mill.) K. Koch, Liriodendrontulipifera L.,Quercus alba L. and Q. rubra L. Soils at this site areInceptisols predominantly in the Holyoke series, and classiﬁed asloamy, mesic Lithic Dystrudepts. The forest stand was selectedbecause it did not contain the non-native C4grass Microstegiumvimineum at the start of the experiment, but it was in the path ofan advancing M. vimineum invasion. As such, we could experi-mentally seed M. vimineum into the forest stand and conse-quently manipulate its presence or absence, without ethicalconcerns of spreading an invasive plant.Within this stand, we established six experimental blocks alonga5 0 0 mt r a n s e c t ,s p a c e d c. 100 m apart. Each block consisted ofthree experimental treatments (see Fig. 1), which included: (1) ‘Liv-ing Roots +Litter’ plots, that is undisturbed M. vimineum plants,which seeded and re-grew each year; (2) ‘Living Roots Only’ plots,that is living M. vimineum plants, whose shoot +root litter inputswere removed via hand-weeding immediately after seed drop andsenescence; and (3) ‘Litter Only’ plots, that is the senescedshoot +root M. vimineum litter from Treatment 2, which wetranslocated to the soil surface of the ‘Litter Only’ plots (i.e. Treat-ment 3) every fall for the duration of the experiment (Fig. 1).In the ﬁrst year of the experiment, we established plots usingM. vimineum seed collected from the advancing invasion in anadjacent forest stand. With these seeds, we planted the ‘LivingRoots Only’ and ‘Living Roots +Litter’ plots at an approximatedensity of 450 seeds m/C02(the ‘Litter Only’ plot was not seededwith M. vimineum as it contained only detrital root/shootM. vimineum material, as described above). Every experimentalblock also contained a control plot, kept free of M. vimineum(n=6). Soil organic C pools, soil microbial biomass and soilfauna collected from these control plots were used as a controlvalue for isotope mixing equations (described below). Overall,there were 24 total plots (including the control plots), each ofwhich were 2 92m .New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 234 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseIn the following years, the density and understory coverage ofM. vimineum (up to 100% coverage) was roughly equal to theamount observed at the other stands at the site (Sokol et al.,2017). In October 2012, after the ﬁrst full growing season –andfollowing M. vimineum senescence and seed drop –we carefullyremoved all shoot and root M. vimineum plant tissue from the‘Living Roots Only’ plots and distributed it evenly across the sur-face of the ‘Litter Only’ plots (this transfer was done within ablock, not among blocks). We repeated the same process inOctober 2013 and October 2014. The M. vimineum plants inthe ‘Living Roots +Litter’ plots were left unaltered. To conﬁrmthe effectiveness of our experimental approach, we measured thequantity of M. vimineum roots that remained in the soil afterroot+shoot removal after the ﬁrst year of the experiment in the‘Living Roots Only’ treatment, and found that only a very smallproportion of roots remained (1.0 /C60.2 g M. vimineum roots6250 cm/C03). Importantly, we note that hand weeding ofM. vimineum from ‘Living Roots Only’ plots caused some soildisturbance (although it was minimal, due to the plant’s verysmall and shallow root structure), and this caveat is considered inthe Discussion section. We kept control plots free ofM. vimineum through regular hand-weeding. The experimentconcluded in October 2015.Because 2013 was the ﬁrst full growing season in which ‘LitterOnly’ plots contained litter material, we refer to it throughout as‘year 1’ and the subsequent years as ‘year 2’ (2014) and ‘year 3’(2015). Thus, a feature of this experimental design was that the‘Living Roots Only’ and ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment werereceiving M. vimineum C input for an additional year, in theform of living root C inputs, compared to the ‘Litter Only’ treat-ment (i.e. they received living root C during the 2012 growingseason). We take this difference into account when calculatingthe efﬁciency of incorporation of living root vs litter inputs overthe course of the whole experiment, as described in detail below(see the Results section).Plot samplingWe conducted all plot sampling in mid-September, during thepeak of M. vimineum above-ground biomass growth at the site(Sokol et al., 2017). In years 1, 2 and 3, M. vimineum biomass(shoot +root tissue) was sampled in the ‘Living Roots Only’ and‘Living Roots +Litter’ plots. Speciﬁcally, within each plot, weharvested the M. vimineum root and shoot biomass containedwithin two 0.25 m2quadrats, dried it at 65 °C, and weighed it.Also in each plot, we measured soil temperature (10 cm depth)and volumetric soil moisture (12 cm Time Domain Reﬂectome-try probes) at several points throughout the growing season.We sampled soils in years 1, 2 and 3. In each plot, 20 2-cm-diameter cores were extracted up to 10 cm depth (because insome places we hit rocks) in the A (mineral) horizon. Soil waspassed through a 4 mm sieve on site, homogenized, and then allFig. 1 Experimental design to test how plant carbon (C) from living roots vs litter inputs of Microstegium vimineum is incorporated into soil organic carbon(SOC) pools. The diagram shows one of six experimental blocks. During the growing season (upper panel), living root inputs from M. vimineum enteredthe soil in Treatments 1 and 2. Every autumn, after M. vimineum senescence and seed-drop (lower panel), shoot and root litter remained in place inTreatment 1, but in Treatment 2 (i.e. ‘Living Roots Only’) the root and shoot litter was removed and placed on the soil surface of the adjacent plot forTreatment 3 (i.e. ‘Litter Only’)./C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 235 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensesamples were stored at 4 °C in the lab for further analysis. We col-lected a second set of unsieved soil cores at each plot to calculatebulk density. As the main aim of this study was to track the Cinputs from living roots vs litter after several years, we intensivelysampled in year 3, when, in addition to SOC pools, we also mea-sured Microstegium- derived C in soil microbial biomass (via chlo-roform-fumigation extraction) and in the soil arthropoddecomposer food web. Thus, in year 3, in addition to the soilcores, we harvested two intact blocks (0.25 m2, 10 cm deep) perplot to collect soil arthropods and estimate Microstegium- derivedC in the decomposer food web.Laboratory analysisAll assays described in this section occurred in years 1, 2 and 3,unless explicitly noted.Soil properties We measured soil pH using a 1 : 1 volumetricratio of soil to water, on a benchtop pH meter. We determinedgravimetric soil moisture by measuring the mass differencebetween fresh soils and soils that were dried to constant mass at105°C. For water-holding capacity (WHC), we wet soils to 100-% ﬁeld capacity, and then calculated the mass difference betweenwet and dried soils. In year 1, we used air-dried soils to calculatesoil texture and bulk density. For texture, we estimated the por-tion of soil particles that were sand, silt and clay within 50 g ofsieved soil, using a simpliﬁed version of the hydrometer method(Gee & Or, 2002). We measured bulk density on nonsieved soilcores to correct SOC values for C content per unit volume.Soil carbon pools We tracked the accumulation ofMicrostegium -derived C into two distinct C pools: the mineral-associated soil organic carbon (MASOC) pool and the POCpool. The MASOC pool consists of relatively low molecularweight plant- and microbe-derived C compounds, which sorb tomineral surfaces or to existing organo-mineral structures(Lehmann & Kleber, 2015). While not all C in the MASOCpool is well protected from microbial decomposition (e.g.Keiluweit et al., 2015), this C pool is considered overall to beslower-cycling than the POC pool, and contains the subset of Cthat is most stable over long time scales (Lehmann & Kleber,2015). The POC pool is faster-cycling, and generally containslarger molecular weight compounds that are in the midst of thedecomposition process.We separated SOC into these two pools using a physical frac-tionation method, where soil samples (10 g air-dried soil) wereshaken with 30 ml of the chemical dispersant sodium hexam-etaphosphate (NaHMP) for 18 h. Following the shaking period,samples were passed through a 53 lm sieve, which included anextensive rinsing with distilled water to ensure particles below thethreshold size had passed through. The fraction that passedthrough the sieve was classiﬁed as MASOC, whereas the fractionretained in the sieve ( >53lm) was deﬁned as the POC pool(Paul et al., 2001). Both fractions were dried at 65 °C; in addi-tion, a subsample of air-dried soil was dried at 105 °C for air-dryto oven-dry weight corrections. Dried samples were ball-milledto a ﬁne powder and analyzed for elemental %C and %N(Costech ESC 4010 Elemental Analyzer, Valencia, CA, USA)andd13C (continuous-ﬂow isotope-ratio mass spectrometer, pre-cision /C60.2%; Thermo Delta Plus Advantage, San Jose, CA,USA). The laboratory working standards included the glutamicacids ‘USGS 40’ and ‘USGS 41’, which were calibrated againstthe international standard Vienna Pee Dee Belemnite (Yale Ana-lytical and Stable Isotope Facility, New Haven, CT, USA).We estimated the proportion of Microstegium -derived-derived C in POC and MASOC pools by comparing the dif-ference in the d13C values of these soil fractions to values inthe block-speciﬁc control plot (e.g. Kramer et al., 2012). Wealso measured plot-speciﬁc M. vimineum d13C isotope valuesfrom dried and ball-milled samples of plant tissue. Acrossplots, the average d13Co f M. vimineum was/C013.5/C60.1&,while the average d13Co fC 3tissue was /C026.8/C60.3&.W ecalculated the amount of Microstegium -derived C using the fol-lowing mixing equation:CMicrostegium /C0derived ¼Cpool/C2ðd13Ctreatment /C0d13CcontrolÞ=ðd13CM:vimineum /C0d13CcontrolÞwhere C poolis the pool size of the SOC fraction (MASOC orPOC), d13Ctreatment is the d13C value of the SOC fraction in thespeciﬁc treatment (‘Living Roots Only’, ‘Litter Only’, ‘LivingRoots + Litter’), d13Ccontrol is the d13C of the SOC fraction ofthe block-speciﬁc control plot, and d13CM.vimineum is the plot-speciﬁc value of the M. vimineum plant itself (Ineson et al.,1996). We deﬁned the remainder of C in an SOC fraction thatwas not Microstegium -derived C as C 3-derived Carbon stocks(both Microstegium -derived SOC and total SOC) were calculatedusing the bulk density values, and are presented as g of C per m2to 10 cm depth (Kramer et al., 2012).In addition to these C pools, we also measured the labile, ‘mi-crobially available C pool’, through a lab-based C mineralizationassay over a 30 d period (Paul et al., 2001; Bradford et al., 2008).This assay provides a rough estimate of the size of the bioavailableC pool within the soil. Speciﬁcally, soil samples were maintainedat 20°C and 65% WHC in 50 ml centrifuge tubes for 30 d, andCO2efﬂux was measured using an infrared gas analyzer (IRGA:Li-Cor Biosciences, Lincoln, NE, USA, Model 8100) on days 1,3, 5, 10, 20 and 30. We plotted CO2efﬂux values through time,and calculated total microbially available C (g CO 2-C d/C01) as thearea under the curve.Soil microbial biomass We used two techniques to measure soilmicrobial biomass: the ﬁrst to gain a proxy of active microbialbiomass (via a substrate-induced respiration technique), and thesecond to track the movement of Microstegium -derived Cthrough the microbial biomass C (MBC) pool (via chloroform-fumigation extraction). For the substrate-induced respiration(SIR) technique, a soil sample (4 g dry weight equivalent) wasmixed with excess, easily degradable C substrate (yeast extract),followed by an incubation period of 4 h at 20 °C (Anderson &Domsch, 1978; West & Sparling, 1986; Fierer et al., 2003). Wethen measured respiration (CO2efﬂux) using an infrared gasNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 236 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseanalyzer (see above); higher CO 2efﬂux values (g C-CO 2g/C01soil h/C01) serve as an index for a larger active microbialbiomass.In year 3, we used a chloroform-fumigation extraction proce-dure to measure the proportion of Microstegium -derived C inboth the MBC and DOC pools (Vance et al., 1987). We used amodiﬁed version of this procedure, as described by Fierer (2003),whereby two subsamples of soil (5 g dry weight equivalent) fromeach microcosm were shaken in 0.5 M K2SO4for 4 h. One sub-sample was exposed to chloroform-fumigation (which measuresMBC +DOC) and the other was not, thus serving as a nonfumi-gated control (DOC only). After shaking, the supernatant fromeach tube was poured through a #42 Whatman ﬁlter. Liquidextracts were analyzed for total C on a total organic carbon(TOC) analyzer (Shimadzu, Columbia, MD, USA), and ford13C on a Thermo GasBench coupled to a ThermoDelta PlusXP isotope ratio mass spectrometer (Thermo Fischer Scientiﬁc,Waltham, MA, USA). The MBC pool was calculated as the dif-ference in organic C between the fumigated and unfumigatedsamples, divided by a correction factor ( kEC) of 0.45 (Beck et al.,1997). The proportion of Microstegium -derived C in the MBCand DOC pools was calculated using the same mixing equation asdescribed above, using the block-speciﬁc control plot as thed13Ccontrol value.Soil decomposer food web The two intact blocks from eachplot, harvested in year 3, were immediately brought back tothe lab for processing. We designated one intact block formacrofauna collection (i.e. >2 mm) and one intact block formesofauna collection (i.e. 0.1 –2 mm). The ﬁrst intact block,used for soil mesofauna extraction, was immediately placedwithin a Tullgren funnel and exposed to light for 72 h(McBrayer et al., 1977). Extracted mesofauna samples werestored in 70% ethanol and then sorted under a dissectingmicroscope into the following three groups: Collembola(springtails), Oribatida (decomposer mites) and predatory mites(Acari: Mesostigmata and predatory Prostigmata), as these werethe most abundant and well-represented groups across all plots.We broadly categorize the ﬁrst two groups as detritivores/mi-crobivores, and the latter group as generalist predators (Cole-man et al., 2017).The second intact block was carefully hand-sorted for soilmacrofauna; c. 1 h was spent per sample. Fauna were generallyseparated by taxonomic order, although with some further sepa-ration for distinct functional groups, and some at coarser distinc-tions (i.e. class) when appropriate, as described below. Afterarthropod sorting, multiple individuals were pooled together bytaxonomic/functional grouping. Because we were primarily inter-ested in comparing the extent of Microstegium -derived C enrich-ment across treatments, we only present data from faunal groupswhich were recovered in at least two of the six plots for each ofthe treatments (including the control plot, as these were necessaryfor baseline values). Based on these criteria, we present data onthe following groups: Coleoptera (beetle) adults, soil-inhabitingColeoptera (beetle) larvae, Araneae (spiders) and Isopoda(woodlice). The mean number of individuals ( /C6SE) recovered ina single intact block for the mesofauna and macrofauna groupsare shown in Supporting Information Table S1.Samples were dried at 65 °C, hand-milled with a mortar andpestle, and run for element %C and13C, as described above. Fol-lowing Pollierer et al. (2007), we present the plot-speciﬁc d13Cvalue for each arthropod group (i.e. the pooled individuals froma single arthropod group from a single plot) relative to the meand13C value of the corresponding arthropod group from the con-trol plots, to determine the relative biomass incorporation ofMicrostegium- derived C. We refer to this term throughout as the‘control-adjusted d13C value.’Statistical analysisWe conduced all analyses using linear mixed models (LMMs) inR v.3.3.2 (R Core Team, 2017). We ran two different sets ofLMMs: the ﬁrst set was for response variables that were measuredin years 1, 2 and 3, whereas the second set was for response vari-ables that were only measured in year 3. Both sets of modelsincluded ‘Treatment’ as a ﬁxed effect (i.e. ‘Living Roots Only’,‘Litter Only’ and ‘Living Roots +Litter’) and ‘Block’ as a randomeffect.The ﬁrst of the models included ‘Year’ as a ﬁxed effect toaccount for temporal correlation between plots, as well as aYear9Treatment interaction (i.e. for response variables: SIR ‘ac-tive’ microbial biomass, microbially available C, POC andMASOC). The interaction term was dropped from the model ifit was not statistically signiﬁcant at P≤0.05. Soil temperature,soil moisture, soil pH and M. vimineum biomass were includedas covariates, to account for any plot-level or environmental dif-ferences which may affect SOC formation or loss. Per cent claywas included as a covariate in the model run for MASOC, as claycontent can correlate with MASOC formation (e.g. Schimelet al., 1994). If there was a signiﬁcant effect of ‘Year’, we then ranthe model separately for each year as a post-hoc approach to evalu-ate within-year treatment effects. For these post-hoc models, onlyM. vimineum biomass was included as a covariate because thelower nreduced the statistical power and the number of feasiblecovariates. We conduced multiple comparisons using Tukey’shonest signiﬁcant difference (HSD) test with the glhtfunction intheMULTCOMP package (Hothorn et al., 2008).The second set of models included response variables whichwere only measured in year 3 (i.e. microbial biomass C, dissolvedorganic C, and Microstegium- derived C within soil mesofaunaand soil macrofauna). Again, due to the lower n,M. vimineumbiomass was the only covariate we included in these models. Post-hoctests for multiple comparisons were conducted using Tukey’sHSD test.All residuals were checked for normality and homogeneity ofvariance. Response variables that did not meet assumptions ofnormality and homoscedasticity were log-transformed. Statisticalsigniﬁcance was determined at P≤0.05, and marginal signiﬁcancewas deﬁned as P<0.1 (Hurlbert & Lombardi, 2009), chosen apriori to balance model speciﬁcity with the relatively low sensitiv-ity of ﬁeld studies to detect changes in SOC pools (e.g. Carneyet al., 2007; Throop & Archer, 2008; Kramer et al., 2012)./C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 237 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseResultsMicrostegium -derived carbon in SOC (years 1 –3)Carbon inputs from ‘Living Roots Only’ of M. vimineum formedsigniﬁcantly more POC compared to C inputs from ‘Litter Only’ ofM. vimineum (i.e. root + shoot litter) (coeff. =5.7, P<0.001).Throughout the experimental period, the greater formation of POCunder ‘Living Roots Only’ relative to ‘Litter Only’ was generallyconsistent through time (i.e. there was no signiﬁcant Year 9Treat-ment interaction; Table S2). Speciﬁcally, averaged across 3 yr, theformation of POC from ‘Living Roots Only’ was greater than from‘Litter Only’ by a mean value ( /C6SE) of 153 /C639%.By contrast, for the formation of Microstegium -derivedMASOC, the difference between treatments changed throughtime (Fig. 2b). This was driven largely by higher MASOC forma-tion from ‘Living Roots Only’ inputs in year 3 (Year 9Treat-ment interaction, coeff. =8.8, P<0.001; Table S3). We foundno signiﬁcant differences between treatments in year 1 or year 2.In year 3, the amount of MASOC formed from ‘Living RootsOnly’ inputs was c. 106% greater than the amount formed from‘Litter Only’ inputs (Tukey’s HSD, P<0.001), and also c. 47%greater than the amount of MASOC formed under ‘LivingRoots +Litter’ inputs (Tukey’s HSD, P=0.01).Microstegium -derived carbon in microbial biomass (year 3)In year 3, the ‘Living Roots Only’ treatment averaged c.6 6 0 %more Microstegium- derived C in the MBC pool relative to the ‘Lit-ter Only’ treatment (Tukey’s HSD, P<0.001) (Fig. 3a). The ‘Liv-ing Roots +Litter’ treatment averaged c.4 6 0 %m o r e Microstegium -derived C in the MBC pool relative to the ‘Litter Only’ treatment(Tukey’s HSD, P<0.001). Notably, there were no statistically sig-niﬁcant differences between treatments in the size of the totalMBC pool in year 3 (i.e. the sum of Microstegium -derivedMBC +non-Microstegium -derived MBC) (Fig. 3c; Table S4).For the DOC pool, the ‘Living Roots Only’ treatment aver-aged 282% more Microstegium- derived C than the ‘Litter Only’treatment ( P<0.001). The ‘Living Roots + Litter’ averaged 200-% more Microstegium- derived C than the ‘Litter Only’ treatment,but this difference did not reach statistical signiﬁcance (Tukey’sHSD, P=0.1) (Fig. 3b).Microstegium-derived carbon in soil fauna (year 3)Across all treatments, we detected higher d13C values for all meso-faunal arthropod taxa (i.e. Collembola, Oribatid mites and preda-tory mites) relative to the Microstegium -free control (i.e. ‘control-adjusted d13C’), indicating consumption of Microstegium -derivedC among all groups. However, for these mesofaunal groups, we didnot detect signiﬁcant differences between treatments (Table S5).By contrast, there were signiﬁcant differences between treatmentsfor several macrofaunal groups (Fig. 4), indicating differences intheir biomass incorporation of Microstegium -derived C. The con-trol-adjusted d13C values were higher for soil-inhabiting Coleopteralarvae in the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment relative to the ‘LitterOnly’ treatment, by an average of 3.8 /C61.4&(Tukey HSD,P=0.01), and higher in the ‘Living Roots Only’ treatment relativeto the ‘Litter Only’ treatment, by an average of 2.3 /C61.1&(Tukey’s HSD, P=0.09) (Fig. 4a). A similar trend was observedamong Coleoptera adults (Fig. 4b). The control-adjusted d13Cv a l -ues of Coleoptera adults in the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatmentwere greater than for those in the ‘Litter Only’ treatment by a meanvalue of 1.2 /C60.6&(Tukey’s HSD, P=0.08).The control-adjusted d13C values for isopods (woodlice) in the‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment were higher than under ‘LitterOnly’ by an average of 2.6 /C61.1&(Tukey’s HSD, P=0.06)(Fig. 4c). Among the Araneae (spiders), the control-adjustedd13C values for individuals in the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treat-ment were greater than those in the ‘Litter Only’ treatment by anaverage value of 1.2 /C60.6&(Tukey’s HSD, P=0.09) (Fig. 4d).Total SOC, microbially available C and active microbialbiomass (year 3)In year 3, the microbially available C pool under ‘LivingRoots +Litter’ averaged c. 41% larger than the ‘Litter Only’(a)(b)Fig. 2 Microstegium -derived soil organic carbon (SOC) formation fromliving roots compared to litter (i.e. root +shoot litter) in years 1 –3. Therewas signiﬁcantly greater Microstegium -derived C from living rootscompared to litter in both the: (a) particulate organic carbon pool (POC)and (b) mineral-associated soil organic carbon pool (MASOC). Barsrepresent means /C6SE (n=6), and individual data points are shown as blackopaque circles. For model regression coefﬁcients and Tukey’s HSD outputfor within-year comparisons, see Supporting Information Tables S2 and S3.New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 238 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensetreatment (Tukey’s HSD, P=0.02) (Fig. 5a; Table S6). In addi-tion, the active microbial biomass (i.e. SIR microbial biomass)under the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment was on average c.30% larger than the ‘Living Roots Only’ treatment (Tukey’sHSD, P=0.09) (Fig. 5b; Table S6). Notably, there was also a sig-niﬁcant, positive relationship ( r2=0.67) between the size of themicrobially available C pool and the amount of active microbialbiomass (Fig. 5c).There were no signiﬁcant differences between treatments inthe size of the POC pool (i.e. POC from both Microstegium -derived and non- Microstegium -derived sources), as well as the sizeof the whole SOC pool (i.e. MASOC +POC from bothMicrostegium -derived and non- Microstegium -derived sources)(Fig. 6a,b). However, the total MASOC pool under the ‘LivingRoots +Litter’ treatment declined by c. 30% relative to the ‘LitterOnly’ treatment (Tukey’s HSD, P=0.06) (Fig. 6c; Table S7).Efﬁciency of living root vs litter inputsTo estimate the efﬁciency by which living root vs litter inputswere retained within the SOC pools of each plot, we calculatedthe proportion of Microstegium -derived C in the SOC pool (i.e.MASOC or POC) at year 3, relative to the amount ofMicrostegium -derived C that entered the soil over the entireexperiment (Tables 1, S8). We estimated litter C inputs by sum-ming the total shoot and coarse root biomass of M. vimineum ineach plot. We estimated living root C inputs by multiplying thebiomass value by a conversion factor (see next paragraph fordetails on the conversion factor). Because we added senesced litterfrom ‘Living Roots Only’ plots to the ‘Litter Only’ plots withinan experimental block, we used the same biomass estimates forthe ‘Living Roots Only’ and the ‘Litter Only’ plots for eachexperimental block (Table 1). We estimated the total C in plantbiomass by multiplying the plot-speciﬁc biomass value(g biomass m/C02) by the average %C value of M. vimineum planttissue across all plots (45 /C60.22%).To calculate living root C input, we derived the conversionfactors from estimates in the literature that relate total photoas-similate to living root C contributions to the soil. In a recentmeta-analysis, Pausch & Kuzyakov (2017) found that, across 16studies and 128 datasets, the mean value ( /C6SE) of net rhizode-position for grassland species was 6.05 /C60.48% of total photoas-similate (similar values were also found for crop and tree species).The authors also estimated, based on values from Riederer et al.(2015), that gross rhizodeposition was c. 2.2 times greater thannet rhizodeposition. From these values, we therefore estimatedthatc. 13.3% of total M. vimineum net photoassimilate (i.e. mea-sured as M. vimineum shoot +root biomass) was allocated togross living root C input. This estimate falls within the range ofprior estimates from annual plants (e.g. Marschner, 1986), asannual plants allocate less of their photosynthate below groundthan do perennial plants (Grayston et al., 1997; Pausch &Kuzyakov, 2017). This estimate also aligns with Jones et al.(2009), who estimated that about 11 %of net ﬁxed C is allocatedto rhizodeposition. Thus, the conversion factor for ‘Living RootOnly’ plots was 13.3% of the plot-speciﬁc biomass C value; theconversion factor for ‘Living Root +Litter’ plots was 113.3% ofthe plot-speciﬁc biomass C value; and the conversion factor for‘Litter Only’ plots was 100% of the plot-speciﬁc biomass C value(Tables 1, S8).(a)(b)(c)Fig. 3 Microstegium -derived carbon in the microbial biomass anddissolved organic carbon (DOC) pools in year 3. Bars represent means /C6SE(n=6), and individual data points are shown as black opaque circles. Therewas a greater quantity of Microstegium -derived carbon both in the: (a)microbial biomass carbon pool and (b) the DOC pool under the ‘LivingRoots’ and ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment, relative to ‘Litter’ alone. (c) Bycontrast, the total microbial biomass carbon (MBC) pool between thethree treatments was not signiﬁcantly different. Letters indicatedifferences between means based on Tukey’s HSD tests (signiﬁcancedetermined at P≤0.05)./C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 239 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseBased on these values, we used two approaches to estimate thepercentage of M. vimineum living root vs litter inputs that wereretained as SOC. For both approaches, we divided the amount ofMicrostegium -derived SOC that formed at the end of the experi-ment (i.e. either Microstegium -derived MASOC or POC) by theestimated amount of M. vimineum C input over the entire experi-mental period (Table 1). We note that one unavoidable feature ofour experimental design was that plots with living root inputsreceived an additional year of C input than did plots with litterinputs, as described in the Materials and Methods section (i.e.4 yr of living root input compared to 3 yr of litter input). Weaccounted for this time difference in our efﬁciency calculationsby including an estimate of the sum of all C inputs over the fullexperimental period (Table 1, column b4).In the ﬁrst approach to calculate retention efﬁciency, we com-pared the percentage of SOC formed under the ‘Living RootsOnly’ treatment vs the ‘Litter Only’ treatment. Speciﬁcally, anaverage ( /C6SE) of 35.8 /C69.4% of living root inputs wereretained in the MASOC pool by the end of the experiment,whereas only 2.8 /C61.3% of litter inputs were retained in theMASOC pool. We observed a similar difference in the POCpool: 32.0 /C67.2% of living root C was retained as POC, vs2.5/C60.6% of litter inputs (Table 1). To determine the relativeefﬁciency of living root vs litter inputs, we thus divided the per-centage retained under ‘Living Roots Only’ by that retainedunder ‘Litter Only’ (i.e. column c in Table 1) (Rasse et al., 2005).Thus, through this ﬁrst approach, we estimated that, per unit ofC, living root inputs were retained both as MASOC and as POCwith c. 13 times greater efﬁciency than litter inputs.Because our experimental design had unavoidable artifacts –such as root litter decaying on the soil surface instead of in thesoil–our ﬁrst approach may be an overestimate of the contribu-tions of living root inputs to SOC pools. Thus, we also used amore conservative approach to estimate the proportion of Cretained from living roots. For the second approach, we calcu-lated the amount of C retained under living roots by subtractingthe amount of SOC retained under the ‘Litter Only’ treatmentfrom the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment (i.e. for the MASOCpool, 10.4 –7.4=3gCm/C02; see Table 1), and dividing this bythe estimated amount of living root C input over the whole(a) (b)(c) (d)Fig. 4 Differences in the control-adjusted d13C values of soil macrofauna groups in year 3. Shown are the plot-speciﬁc, ‘control-adjusted d13C value’ forfour different soil macrofaunal groups. For each faunal group, we calculated the control-adjusted d13C by subtracting the mean d13C value of thecorresponding faunal group in control plots (i.e. plots with no Microstegium vimineum ) from the d13C value of pooled individuals within each plot. Thed13C values are all enriched compared to the controls (i.e. positive d13C values), indicating consumption of M. vimineum . Soil fauna include: (a) soil-inhabiting Coleoptera (beetle) larvae, (b) adult Coleoptera, (c) Isopoda (woodlice) and (d) Araneae (spiders). Individual data points are shown as blackopaque circles. Bars represent means /C6SE;n≥2 per treatment (i.e. between two and six plots per treatment contained individuals from the faunal group;see the Materials and Methods section for details). Letters indicate differences between means based on Tukey’s HSD tests. P≤0.05 is signiﬁcant, P<0.1 ismarginally signiﬁcant and denoted by an additional ‘ *’.New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 240 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License(a)(b)(c)Fig. 5 The microbially available carbon pool and the active microbialbiomass in year 3. Bars represent means /C6SE (n=6), and individual datapoints are shown as black opaque circles. The (a) microbially available Cpool (measured through a 30 d mineralization assay) and (b) activemicrobial biomass (measured through substrate-induced respiration, SIR)were both highest in the ‘Litter +Living Roots’ treatment. (c) There was astrong positive relationship between microbially available C and activemicrobial biomass ( r2=0.67, P<0.001). Letters indicate differencesbetween means based on Tukey’s HSD tests ( P≤0.05 is signiﬁcant, P<0.1is marginally signiﬁcant and denoted by an additional ‘ *’).(a)(b)(c)Fig. 6 Total soil organic carbon (SOC) pool sizes in year 3 (i.e.Microstegium -derived SOC +native SOC). Bars represent means /C6SE(n=6), and individual data points are shown as black opaque circles. Therewere no signiﬁcant differences between the three treatments in (a) thetotal SOC pool (i.e. mineral-associated SOC +particulate organic carbonfrom both Microstegium -derived and C 3-derived C sources), as well as in(b) the particulate organic carbon (POC) pool, speciﬁcally. (c) The totalmineral-associated SOC (MASOC) pool was reduced under the ‘LivingRoots +Litter’ treatment relative to the ‘Litter Only’ treatment. Lettersindicate differences between means based on Tukey’s HSD tests ( P≤0.05is signiﬁcant, P<0.1 is marginally signiﬁcant and denoted by anadditional *./C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 241 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseexperimental period (i.e. 54 g C m/C02; see Table 1). This conser-vative estimate of living root contributions indicated that c. 5.6%of living root inputs were retained as MASOC, and 6.9% of liv-ing root inputs were retained in the POC pool, relative to2.8/C61.3% and 2.5 /C60.7% from litter inputs. Similar to theﬁrst approach, we then divided the percentage retained from liv-ing root inputs by that retained under litter inputs for each SOCpool. Through this second approach, we thus determined thatper unit of C, living root inputs were retained as MASOC with2.0 times greater efﬁciency, and as POC with 2.8 times greaterefﬁciency, relative to litter inputs.DiscussionIn contrast to our prediction that litter and living root inputswould supply two distinct SOC formation pathways, we foundthat living roots were instead the overall dominant conduit of Cto the mineral soil. Speciﬁcally, we predicted that M. vimineumliving root inputs would predominantly supply the MASOCpool, whereas M. vimineum root + shoot litter inputs would pri-marily supply the faster-cycling, POC pool (Cotrufo et al.,2015). Consistent with our ﬁrst prediction, we found that aftermultiple growing seasons of C input from M. vimineum livingroots and litter, there was c. 106% greater formation ofMicrostegium -derived MASOC in the ‘Living Roots Only’ plotsthan the ‘Litter Only’ plots (Fig. 2). Moreover, there was a sub-stantially greater amount of Microstegium -derived C in the micro-bial biomass C pool and the DOC pool from living root inputsrelative to litter inputs (Fig. 3), supporting the notion of a‘pipeline’ of DOC transfer from living roots (e.g. root exuda-tion), through the microbial biomass, and into the MASOC pool(Bradford et al., 2012; Cotrufo et al., 2015). Notably, and in con-trast to our second prediction, there was greater formation ofMicrostegium -derived POC from living root inputs relative to lit-ter inputs. Some prior studies have also shown that root-relatedinputs (root litter +living root inputs) can drive increases in thePOC pool (e.g. Puget & Drinkwater, 2001). Therefore, there is aclear need going forward to distinguish the extent that the POCpool is supplied by labile, living root inputs vs structural inputsfrom root and shoot litter.Overall, our work provides ﬁeld-based empirical support thatliving root inputs are more efﬁciently retained than litter inputs(i.e. root +shoot) into MASOC and POC pools. Indeed, wefound that, per unit of C, living root inputs were retained as SOCwith 2- to 13-fold greater efﬁciency than litter inputs after 3 yr.This difference is in agreement with recent estimates which havelooked at total root inputs (i.e. root litter +living root C) vs shootinputs (Rasse et al., 2005; Jackson et al., 2017) as C input sourcesto the SOC. For example, Jackson et al. (2017) compiled studieswhich tracked root vs shoot C primarily using stable isotope tracers(Kong & Six, 2010; Menichetti et al., 2015; Austin et al.,2 0 1 7 ;Ghafoor et al., 2017), and all of which had roots grown in situ ,and found a consistent trend showing the superiority of root-derived inputs as a source of SOC by a mean factor of c.5 . 6 .O u rresults provide evidence that living root inputs alone (i.e. withoutroot litter inputs) exceed that of total litter inputs by the same widemargins as has been previously documented when comparing totalroot contributions to shoot inputs (Rasse et al., 2005; Jacksonet al., 2017). Thus, according to our data, one possibility is thatdifferences in the efﬁciencies of SOC formation from root vs shootinputs are primarily driven by living root inputs.These results must be considered, however, in light of ourexperimental design, which aimed to explicitly isolate the C inputsfrom living roots vs root + shoot litter. First, we added root andshoot litter to the soil surface in the ‘Litter Only’ treatment, whichdoes not accurately simulate how decaying root material enters themineral soil. When roots decay in situ, they are in close contactwith soil microbes and mineral surfaces; owing to these intimateassociations, decaying roots are prime candidates to form aggregateC or MASOC (Rasse et al., 2005). As with shoot litter, when rootlitter is deposited above ground, it must ﬁrst be physically incor-porated into the mineral soil by decomposer organisms. Therefore,we may have disadvantaged the efﬁciency of root litter incorpora-tion in the ‘Litter Only’ plots, and underestimated theTable 1 Microstegium -derived carbon (C) retained in soil organic carbon pools after year 3Treatment(a)Microstegium -derived C pools (b) Estimated Microstegium C input(c) % Microstegium Cretained in SOC pools(mean /C6SE)MASOC(g C m/C02)POC(g C m/C02)(b1)Microstegiumbiomass (g m/C02)(b2) %C inplant tissue(b3) Conversionfactor (%)(b4)MicrostegiumC input (g C m/C02)% retained inMASOC% retainedin POCLitter Only 7.4 /C62.9 7.8 /C62.2 760 /C664 45 100 342 /C664 2.8 /C61.3 2.5 /C60.6Living Roots Only 15.3 /C62.4 14.1 /C62.5 903 /C677 45 13.30 54 /C610.3 35.8 /C69.4 32.0 /C67.2Litter +Living Roots 10.4 /C61.1 11.5 /C61.7 699 /C635 45 113.30 387 /C644 3.4 /C60.9 3.8 /C61.1The proportion of Microstegium -derived living root C vs litter C in the particulate organic carbon (POC) pool and the mineral-associated soil organic carbonpool (MASOC) varied across three experimental treatments (i.e. ‘Litter Only’, ‘Living Roots Only’ and ‘Living Roots +Litter’, n=6) over 3 yr. To calculatethe efﬁciency of incorporation of Microstegium -derived C into each SOC pool, we divided the amount of Microstegium -derived C from each SOC poolafter year 3 (column a) by the estimated M. vimineum C input over the full experimental period (column b4), to derive the percentage of Microstegium -derived C that was retained in each SOC pool after 3 yr (column c). To calculated the Microstegium -derived C input over the experimental period (columnb4), we multiplied the cumulative M. vimineum biomass (column b1) by the mean %C in M. vimineum plant tissue (b2, i.e. 45 /C60.22%) as well as theconversion factor (column b3, i.e. Pausch & Kuzyakov (2017), Riederer et al. (2015)). See article text for more detail on conversion factors. We used plot-speciﬁc values for all calculations, and we present the mean values ( /C6SE); all plot-speciﬁc values and calculations are shown in Table S8.New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 242 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensecontribution of root litter relative to living root input. Second, weassumed that decaying root litter inputs (i.e. root turnover) duringthe growing season were negligible in the ‘Living Roots Only’treatment, and thus that living roots were the only source of Cwithin these plots. We made this assumption based on the shortlife cycle of M. vimineum (c. 5 months), and its minimal ﬁne rootstructure (Ehrenfeld et al., 2001). Regardless, possible rootturnover during the growing season in the ‘Living Roots Only’treatment would have elevated the contributions that we assumedwere from living roots alone. Third, by physically removing theroot + shoot litter in the ‘Living Roots Only’ treatment, we dis-turbed the upper mineral soil. This disturbance should have beenrelatively minimal, as the root structure of M. vimineum is so smalland shallow (i.e. 2 –8% of total biomass, and extending only a fewcentimeters into the soil). Yet this soil disturbance may havealtered SOC formation in these plots. On the one hand, it mayhave accelerated the incorporation of living root C into the SOCpool. On the other hand, the disturbance may have stimulatedSOC loses, as has been observed with disturbances in forests(Petrenko & Friedland, 2015), through cultivation (Elliott, 1986)or in cropping systems (Guo & Gifford, 2002). Because ourexperimental design may have led to either an underestimation oroverestimation of the role of living root inputs, we used two meth-ods to estimate the efﬁciency of C incorporation from living rootinputs (see above). This range (i.e. 2 –13 times more efﬁcient)allows us to capture the spread of how potential artifacts inﬂu-enced the conclusions that we reached.Interestingly, we found that the amount of SOC formed fromliving roots and litter inputs was not summative: the amount ofSOC formed under ‘Living Roots Only’ exceeded that of ‘LivingRoots +Litter’ to the MASOC pool (Fig. 2a). The nonadditivitymay be due to some of the experimental artifacts described above,or it might have been due to a microbial priming effect inducedby the combined presence of litter and living root inputs (Fon-taine et al., 2007; Tamura & Tharayil, 2014). Speciﬁcally, theamount of microbially available C (i.e. the labile C pool) washighest in the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment (Fig. 5a), as wasthe active microbial biomass (measured via substrate-induced res-piration) (Fig. 5b). Due to the strong positive relationshipbetween active microbial biomass and microbially available C(Fig. 5c), it is possible that the enlarged microbially available Cpool under ‘Living Roots +Litter’ elevated the active microbialbiomass. This increase in active microbial biomass could have, inturn, metabolized a portion of the newly formed MASOC pool,thus decreasing the net Microstegium -derived MASOC pool inthe ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment.Possible priming effects from living roots need to be considerednot only for newly formed Microstegium -derived SOC, but alsofor non- Microstegium -derived SOC (i.e. C3-derived SOC), toaccurately assess the net effect of living roots on the size of theSOC pool. Indeed, losses in SOC that are stimulated by livingroots can exceed the new SOC that their inputs form, leading toreductions in SOC stocks (Dijkstra & Cheng, 2007; Tamura &Tharayil, 2014). Within our plots and the time scale of our work,the size of the total SOC pool (i.e. MASOC +POC from bothMicrostegium -derived and C3-derived sources) did not signiﬁcantlydiffer across treatments (Fig. 6a). Yet when looking at the differentSOC fractions, we found that the size of the total MASOC poolunder ‘Living Roots +Litter’ was c. 30% lower than the ‘LitterOnly’ treatment (Fig. 6c). This observation suggests that the com-bined presence of M. vimineum living roots and litter not onlyprimed the loss of some of the new MASOC and POC formed bythe living roots of M. vimineum (Fig. 2), but also decreased thenative, C3-derived MASOC pool (Fig. 6c). In line with this obser-vation, Shahbaz et al. (2017) found that with increasing amountsof wheat residue added to the soil –regardless of whether it wasshoot or root residue –there was both increased microbial primingof SOC and a reduced proportion of fresh inputs that wereretained as SOC. Similar observations have been found in forestecosystems with the experimental doubling of litter inputs (Sulz-man et al.,2 0 0 5 ;P i s a n i et al., 2016). Thus, beyond a certainthreshold level of input –especially with the addition of structurallitter inputs –it is possible for net SOC formation to be reducedand microbial priming of native SOC to be stimulated.What is unclear, however, is how these SOC dynamics willplay out over the longer term. While the combined presence ofM. vimineum living roots and litter was associated with a declinein the total MASOC pool relative to the ‘Litter Only’ treatment,it was also associated with overall more rapid cycling of SOC.Speciﬁcally, there was not only greater formation of SOC under‘Living Roots +Litter’ relative to the ‘Litter Only’ treatment(Fig. 2), and greater microbially available C and active microbialbiomass (Fig. 5), but also greater usage of Microstegium -derivedC among several soil fauna groups (Fig. 4). Among detritivore/microbivore and predator macrofauna (i.e. soil-inhabiting beetlelarvae, adult beetles, woodlice and spiders), the greater13Cenrichment in the ‘Living Roots +Litter’ treatment suggests thatMicrostegium -derived C was being used by the soil microbialcommunity and propagating up the food web. Consistent withthis ﬁnding, Bradford et al. (2012) also found that living root Cfrom M. vimineum rapidly propagated through the food web andwas recovered in surface-dwelling wolf spiders within a week aftera13C pulse-labeling event. This more rapid cycling of C maylead to a continual reduction in MASOC stocks, if priming ofold stocks exceeds formation of new MASOC (Dijkstra &Cheng, 2007). However, it is also possible that the primingeffects may be transient (Lajtha et al., 2014b) and that MASOCstocks could ultimately increase through time, even while there ismore rapid cycling of SOC. Although some manipulative forestlitter studies have shed light on longer-term dynamics of root-and shoot-related inputs (e.g. the detrital input and litter removal‘DIRT’ experiments (Lajtha et al., 2014a,b)), additional long-term, manipulative studies are clearly needed. The additionalstudies should aim to understand how living root inputs collec-tively inﬂuence the turnover and stock size of SOC, in additionto C ﬂows through below-ground food webs, both alone and inthe presence of litter inputs.ConclusionWe show that, in a temperate forest ecosystem, the living rootinputs of the understory grass M. vimineum were retained/C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 243 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensebetween 2 and 13 times more efﬁciently than litter inputs in boththe MASOC pool and the POC pool after several years of input.The dominant effect of living root inputs on net formation ofMASOC is commensurate with expectations from the ‘DOC-microbial pathway’ theory (Cotrufo et al., 2015), whereby labileDOC compounds are efﬁciently microbially anabolized, turnedover and deposited into the MASOC pool. To our knowledge,this is one of the ﬁrst studies that provides evidence that the efﬁ-ciency of living root C in forming MASOC is at least partiallydue to its incorporation via the DOC –microbial pathway.Our results thus collectively point to the importance of livingroot inputs in forming SOC. We highlight two key areas forfuture work, based on our results. First, as M. vimineum has sucha small and shallow root system, it is important to determinehow plants with different above-ground : below-ground biomassratios, as well as different root traits, will alter the relative impor-tance of living root vs litter inputs. For example, Poirier et al.(2018) recently compiled an extensive list of relevant root traitsthat may affect soil C formation; features such as root branchingintensity, root depth distribution and speciﬁc root length will cer-tainly inﬂuence the importance of root detritus relative to livingroot inputs. Second, through our design, we could not untanglewhich speciﬁc features of living root inputs were primarilyresponsible for the greater efﬁciency of net SOC formation viathis pathway as opposed to via litter inputs. These speciﬁc fea-tures include the chemical composition of living root inputs, aswell as their unique pattern-of-entry to the mineral soil relative tolitter inputs (Rasse et al., 2005). Deepening our understanding ofthe speciﬁc mechanisms underpinning the living root pathway,and the plant traits with which they are associated, will be criticalsteps to better represent the root and shoot pathways in soil bio-geochemical models, and to predict the effects of altered terres-trial C cycling under global environmental change.AcknowledgementsWe thank the land managers at the Regional Water Authority ofSouthern Connecticut for assistance performing research at thesite, Elisa Iturbe for assistance with the ﬁgures, as well as BradErkkila at the Yale Analytical and Stable Isotope Center for assis-tance with isotope analysis. We also thank Rich Phillips, Os Sch-mitz and three anonymous reviewers for useful feedback on themanuscript. Funding was provided to N.W.S. from the NationalScience & Engineering Research Council of Canada and the YaleInstitute for Biospheric Studies.Author contributionsN.W.S. and M.A.B. conceived the study. N.W.S., M.A.B.,S.E.K. and E.K-A. contributed to ﬁeld and laboratory work.N.W.S. analyzed the data and wrote the initial manuscript, withinput from M.A.B. and S.E.K.ORCIDNoah W. Sokol http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0239-1976ReferencesAnderson JPE, Domsch KH. 1978. A physiological method for the quantitativemeasurement of microbial biomass in soils. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 10:215–221.Austin EE, Wickings K, McDaniel MD, Robertson GP, Grandy AS. 2017.Cover crop root contributions to soil carbon in a no-till corn bioenergycropping system. GCB Bioenergy 9: 1252 –1263.Beck T, Joergensen RG, Kandeler E, Makeschin F, Nuss E, Oberholzer HR,Scheu S. 1997. An inter-laboratory comparison of ten different ways ofmeasuring soil microbial biomass C. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 29: 1023 –1032.Bradford MA, Fierer N, Reynolds JF. 2008. Soil carbon stocks in experimentalmesocosms are dependent on the rate of labile carbon, nitrogen andphosphorus inputs to soils. Functional Ecology 22: 964 –974.Bradford MA, Keiser AD, Davies CA, Mersmann CA, Strickland MS. 2013.Empirical evidence that soil carbon formation from plant inputs is positivelyrelated to microbial growth. Biogeochemistry 113: 271 –281.Bradford MA, Strickland MS, DeVore JL, Maerz JC. 2012. Root carbon ﬂowfrom an invasive plant to belowground foodwebs. Plant and Soil 359: 233 –244.Carney KM, Hungate BA, Drake BG, Megonigal JP. 2007. Altered soilmicrobial community at elevated CO2leads to loss of soil carbon. Proceedings ofthe National Academy of Sciences, USA 104: 4990 –4995.Clemmensen KE, Bahr A, Ovaskainen O, Dahlberg A, Ekblad A, Wallander H,Stenlid J, Finlay RD, Wardle DA, Lindahl BD. 2013. Roots and associatedfungi drive long-term carbon sequestration in boreal forest. Science 339: 1615 –1618.Coleman DC, Callaham MA, Crossley DA Jr. 2017. Fundamentals of soil ecology .Burlington, VT, USA: Academic Press.Cotrufo MF, Soong JL, Horton AJ, Campbell EE, Haddix ML, Wall DH,Parton WJ. 2015. Formation of soil organic matter via biochemical andphysical pathways of litter mass loss. Nature Geoscience 8: 776 –779.Cotrufo MF, Wallenstein MD, Boot CM, Denef K, Paul E. 2013. TheMicrobial Efﬁciency-Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) framework integratesplant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization: do labileplant inputs form stable soil organic matter? Global Change Biology 19: 988 –995.Dijkstra FA, Cheng W. 2007. Interactions between soil and tree roots acceleratelong-term soil carbon decomposition. Ecology Letters 10: 1046 –1053.Dijkstra FA, Hobbie SE, Knops J, Reich PB. 2004. Nitrogen deposition andplant species interact to inﬂuence soil carbon stabilization. Ecology Letters 7:1192 –1198.Ehrenfeld JG, Kourtev P, Huang W. 2001. Changes in soil functions followinginvasions of exotic understory plants in deciduous forests. EcologicalApplications 11: 1287 –1300.Elliott ET. 1986. Aggregate structure and carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus innative and cultivated soils 1. Soil Science Society of America Journal 50: 627 –633.Fierer N 2003. Stress ecology and the dynamics of microbial communities andprocesses in soil . PhD thesis, University of California, Oakland, CA, USA.Fierer N, Schimel JP, Holden PA. 2003. Variations in microbial communitycomposition through two soil depth proﬁles. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 35:167–176.Finzi AC, Abramoff RZ, Spiller KS, Brzostek ER, Darby BA, Kramer MA,Phillips RP. 2015. Rhizosphere processes are quantitatively importantcomponents of terrestrial carbon and nutrient cycles. Global Change Biology 21:2082 –2094.Fontaine S, Barot S, Barr /C19e P, Bdioui N, Mary B, Rumpel C. 2007. Stability oforganic carbon in deep soil layers controlled by fresh carbon supply. Nature450: 277 –280.Gee GW, Or D. 2002. Particle-size analysis. In: Dane JH, Topp GC, eds.Methods of soil analysis, Part 4, Physical methods. Soil Science Society of AmericaBook Series Number 5 . Madison, WI, USA: Soil Science Society of America,255–293.Ghafoor A, Poeplau C, Katterer T. 2017. Fate of straw- and root-derived carbonin a Swedish agricultural soil. Biology and Fertility of Soils 53: 257 –267.New Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 244 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseGrayston SJ, Vaughan D, Jones DL. 1997. Rhizosphere carbon ﬂow in trees, incomparison with annual plants: the importance of root exudation and itsimpact on microbial activity and nutrient availability. Applied Soil Ecology 5:29–56.Guo LB, Gifford RM. 2002. Soil carbon stocks and land use change: a metaanalysis. Global Change Biology 8: 345 –360.Harden JW, Hugelius G, Ahlstr €om A, Blankinship JC, Bond-Lamberty B,Lawrence CR, Loisel J, Malhotra A, Jackson RB, Ogle S et al. 2017.Networking our science to characterize the state, vulnerabilities, andmanagement opportunities of soil organic matter. Global Change Biology 348:895.van Hees P, Jones DL, Godbold DL. 2002. Biodegradation of low molecularweight organic acids in coniferous forest podzolic soils. Soil Biology andBiochemistry 34: 1261 –1272.H€ogberg P, Read DJ. 2006. Towards a more plant physiological perspective onsoil ecology. Trends in Ecology & Evolution 21: 548 –554.Hothorn T, Bretz F, Westfall P. 2008. Simultaneous inference in generalparametric models. Biometrical Journal 50: 346 –363.Hurlbert SH, Lombardi CM. 2009. Final collapse of the Neyman-PearsonDecision Theoretic Framework and rise of the neoFisherian. Annales ZoologiciFennici 46: 311 –349.Ineson P, Cotrufo MF, Bol R, Harkness DD, Blum H. 1996. Quantiﬁcation ofsoil carbon inputs under elevated CO2:C3plants in a C 4soil. Plant and Soil187: 345 –350.Jackson RB, Lajtha K, Crow SE, Hugelius G, Kramer MG, Pi ~neiro G.2017. The ecology of soil carbon: pools, vulnerabilities, and biotic andabiotic controls. Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics 48:419–445.Jones DL, Nguyen C, Finlay RD. 2009. Carbon ﬂow in the rhizosphere: carbontrader at the soil-root interface. Plant and Soil 321:5–33.Kallenbach CM, Frey SD, Grandy AS. 2016. Direct evidence for microbial-derived soil organic matter formation and its ecophysiological controls. NatureCommunications 7: 13630.Katterer T, Bolinder MA, Andren O, Kirchmann H, Menichetti L. 2011. Rootscontribute more to refractory soil organic matter than above-ground cropresidues, as revealed by a long-term ﬁeld experiment. Agriculture Ecosystems &Environment 141: 184 –192.Keiluweit M, Bougoure JJ, Nico PS, Pett-Ridge J, Weber PK, Kleber M. 2015.Mineral protection of soil carbon counteracted by root exudates. NatureClimate Change 5: 588 –595.Kong AYY, Six J. 2010. Tracing root vs. residue carbon into soils fromconventional and alternative cropping systems. Soil Science Society of AmericaJournal 74: 1201 –1210.Kramer TD, Warren RJ II, Tang Y, Bradford MA. 2012. Grass invasions acrossa regional gradient are associated with declines in belowground carbon pools.Ecosystems 15: 1271 –1282.Kuzyakov Y, Schneckenberger K. 2006. Review of estimation of plantrhizodeposition and their contribution to soil organic matter formation.Archives of Agronomy and Soil Science 50: 115 –132.Lajtha K, Bowden RD, Nadelhoffer K. 2014a. Litter and root manipulationsprovide insights into soil organic matter dynamics and stability. Soil ScienceSociety of America Journal 78: S261 –S269.Lajtha K, Townsend KL, Kramer MG, Swanston C, Bowden RD, NadelhofferK. 2014b. Changes to particulate versus mineral-associated soil carbon after50 years of litter manipulation in forest and prairie experimental ecosystems.Biogeochemistry 119: 341 –360.Lehmann J, Kleber M. 2015. The contentious nature of soil organic matter.Nature 528:6 0–68.Liang C, Schimel JP, Jastrow JD. 2017. The importance of anabolism inmicrobial control over soil carbon storage. Nature Microbiology 2: 17105.Marschner B. 1986. Mineral nutrition of higher plants . London, UK: AcademicPress.McBrayer JF, Ferris JM, Metz LJ, Gist CS, Cornaby BW, Kitazawa Y, WernzJG, Krantz GW, Jensen H. 1977. Decomposer invertebrate populations in USforest biomes. Pedobiologia 17:8 9–96.Menichetti L, Ekblad A, Katterer T. 2015. Contribution of roots andamendments to soil carbon accumulation within the soil proﬁle in a long-term ﬁeld experiment in Sweden. Agriculture Ecosystems & Environment200:7 9–87.Paterson E, Midwood AJ, Millard P. 2009. Through the eye of the needle: areview of isotope approaches to quantify microbial processes mediating soilcarbon balance. New Phytologist 184:1 9–33.Paul EA, Morris SJ, B €ohm S. 2001. The determination of soil C pool sizes andturnover rates: biophysical fractionation and tracers. In: Lal R, Kimble JM,Follett RF, Stewart BA, eds. Assessment methods for soil carbon . Boca Raton, FL,USA: CRC Press, 193 –205.Pausch J, Kuzyakov Y. 2017. Carbon input by roots into the soil: quantiﬁcationof rhizodeposition from root to ecosystem scale. Global Change Biology 24:1–12.Peltzer DA, Allen RB, Lovett GM, Whitehead D, Wardle DA. 2010. Effects ofbiological invasions on forest carbon sequestration. Global Change Biology 16:732–746.Petrenko CL, Friedland AJ. 2015. Mineral soil carbon pool responses to forestclearing in Northeastern hardwood forests. GCB Bioenergy 7: 1283 –1293.Pett-Ridge J, Firestone MK. 2017. Using stable isotopes to explore root-microbe-mineral interactions in soil. Rhizosphere 3: 244 –253.Phillips RP, Fahey TJ. 2005. Patterns of rhizosphere carbon ﬂux in sugar maple(Acer saccharum ) and yellow birch ( Betula allegheniensis ) saplings. GlobalChange Biology 11: 983 –995.Phillips RP, Meier IC, Bernhardt ES, Grandy AS, Wickings K, Finzi AC. 2012.Roots and fungi accelerate carbon and nitrogen cycling in forests exposed toelevated CO2.Ecology Letters 15: 1042 –1049.Pisani O, Lin LH, Lun OOY, Lajtha K, Nadelhoffer KJ, Simpson AJ, SimpsonMJ. 2016. Long-term doubling of litter inputs accelerates soil organic matterdegradation and reduces soil carbon stocks. Biogeochemistry 127:1–14.Poirier V, Roumet C, Munson AD. 2018. The root of the matter: linking roottraits and soil organic matter stabilization processes. Soil Biology andBiochemistry 120: 246 –259.Pollierer MM, Langel R, K €orner C, Maraun M, Scheu S. 2007. Theunderestimated importance of belowground carbon input for forest soil animalfood webs. Ecology Letters 10: 729 –736.Puget P, Drinkwater LE. 2001. Short-term dynamics of root-and shoot-derivedcarbon from a leguminous green manure. Science Society of America Journal 65:771–779.R Core Team. 2017. R: a language and environment for statistical computing .Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for Statistical Computing. [WWW document]URL http://www.R-project.org [accessed 20 December 2017].Rasse DP, Rumpel C, Dignac M-F. 2005. Is soil carbon mostly root carbon?Mechanisms for a speciﬁc stabilisation. Plant and Soil 269: 341 –356.Riederer M, Pausch J, Kuzyakov Y, Foken T. 2015. Partitioning NEE forabsolute C input into various ecosystem pools by combining results from eddy-covariance, atmospheric ﬂux partitioning and13CO 2pulse labeling. Plant andSoil390:6 1–76.Schimel DS, Braswell BH, Holland EA, Mckeown R, Ojima DS, Painter TH,Parton WJ, Townsend AR. 1994. Climatic, edaphic, and biotic controls overstorage and turnover of carbon in soils. Global Biogeochemical Cycles 8:2 7 9 –293.Schmidt MWI, Torn MS, Abiven S, Dittmar T, Guggenberger G, Janssens IA,Kleber M, K €ogel-Knabner I, Lehmann J, Manning DAC et al. 2011.Persistence of soil organic matter as an ecosystem property. Nature 478:4 9–56.Shahbaz M, Kuzyakov Y, Heitkamp F. 2017. Decrease of soil organic matterstabilization with increasing inputs: Mechanisms and controls. Geoderma 304:76–82.Sokol NW, Kuebbing SE, Bradford MA. 2017. Impacts of an invasive plant arefundamentally altered by a co-occurring forest disturbance. Ecology 98: 2133 –2144.Strickland MS, DeVore JL, Maerz JC, Bradford MA. 2010. Grass invasion of ahardwood forest is associated with declines in belowground carbon pools.Global Change Biology 16: 1338 –1350.Sulzman EW, Brant JB, Bowden RD, Lajtha K. 2005. Contribution ofaboveground litter, belowground litter, and rhizosphere respiration to total soilCO2efﬂux in an old growth coniferous forest. Biogeochemistry 73: 231 –256.Tamura M, Tharayil N. 2014. Plant litter chemistry and microbial primingregulate the accrual, composition and stability of soil carbon in invadedecosystems. New Phytologist 203: 110 –124./C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist TrustNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246www.newphytologist.comNewPhytologist Research 245 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseTang Y, Warren RJ II, Kramer TD, Bradford MA. 2012. Plant invasion impactson arthropod abundance, diversity and feeding consistent across environmentaland geographic gradients. Biological Invasions 14: 2625 –2637.Throop HL, Archer SR. 2008. Shrub ( Prosopis velutina ) encroachment in asemidesert grassland: spatial-temporal changes in soil organic carbon andnitrogen pools. Global Change Biology 14: 2420 –2431.Vance ED, Brookes PC, Jenkinson DS. 1987. An extraction method formeasuring soil microbial biomass C. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 19: 703 –707.West AW, Sparling GP. 1986. Modiﬁcations to the substrate-induced respirationmethod to permit measurement of microbial biomass in soils of differing watercontents. Journal of Microbiological Methods 5: 177 –189.Supporting InformationAdditional supporting information may be found online in theSupporting Information section at the end of the article.Table S1 Mean number of arthropod individuals extracted pertreatment within a single 6250 cm3intact soil block, in year 3Table S2 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffects of ‘Year’ and ‘Treatment’ on the Microstegium- derived par-ticulate organic carbon (POC) poolTable S3 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffects of ‘Year’ and ‘Treatment’ on the Microstegium- derivedmineral-associated soil organic carbon (MASOC) poolTable S4 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffect of ‘Treatment’ on the total microbial biomass carbon(MBC) pool, the Microstegium- derived MBC pool and theMicrostegium- derived dissolved organic carbon (DOC) pool inyear 3Table S5 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffect of ‘Treatment’ on the control-adjusted d13C value ofmacrofaunal and mesofaunal soil arthropod groups in year 3Table S6 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffect of ‘Treatment’ on microbially available carbon (measuredvia a 30 d mineralization assay) and active microbial biomass(measured via substrate-induced respiration) in year 3Table S7 Results from a linear mixed effect model examining theeffect of ‘Treatment’ on total soil organic carbon pools (i.e.Microstegium -derived +non- Microstegium -derived C in theMASOC and POC pools)Table S8 The plot-speciﬁc efﬁciency calculations for the amountofMicrostegium -derived C retained in the MASOC and POCpools after year 3 (i.e. supporting information for the calculationsand values in Table 1)Please note: Wiley Blackwell are not responsible for the contentor functionality of any Supporting Information supplied by theauthors. Any queries (other than missing material) should bedirected to the New Phytologist Central Ofﬁce.New Phytologist  is an electronic (online-only) journal owned by the New Phytologist Trust, a not-for-proﬁt organization  dedicatedto the promotion of plant science, facilitating projects from symposia to free access for our Tansley reviews and Tansley insig hts.Regular papers, Letters, Research reviews, Rapid reports and both Modelling/Theory and Methods papers are encouraged. We are committed to rapid processing, from online submission through to publication ‘as ready’ via Early View  – our average timeto decision is <26 days. There are no page or colour charges  and a PDF version will be provided for each article. The journal is available online at Wiley Online Library. Visit www.newphytologist.com  to search the articles and register for tableof contents email alerts.If you have any questions, do get in touch with Central Oﬃce (np-centraloﬃce@lancaster.ac.uk) or, if it is more convenient,our USA Oﬃce (np-usaoﬃce@lancaster.ac.uk)For submission instructions, subscription and all the latest information visit  www.newphytologist.comNew Phytologist (2019) 221: 233–246 /C2112018 The AuthorsNew Phytologist /C2112018 New Phytologist Trust www.newphytologist.comResearchNewPhytologist 246 14698137, 2019, 1, Downloaded from https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/nph.15361 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License