Microbial Necromass in Soils —LinkingMicrobes to Soil Processes andCarbon TurnoverM. Kästner1*, A. Miltner1, S. Thiele-Bruhn2and C. Liang1,31UFZ - Department of Environmental Biotechnology, Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research, Leipzig, Germany,2Department of Soil Science, Faculty of Regional and Environmental Sciences, Trier University, Trier, Germany,3Key Laboratory ofForest Ecology and Management, Institute of Applied Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang, ChinaThe organic matter of living plants is the precursor material of the organic matter stored interrestrial soil ecosystems. Although a great deal of knowledge exists on the carbon turnoverp r o c e s s e so fp l a n tm a t e r i a l ,s o m eo ft h ep r o c e s s e so fs o i lo r g a n i cm a t t e r( S O M )f o r m a t i o n ,i nparticular from microbial nec romass, are still not fully understood. Recent research showedthat a larger part of the original plant matter i s converted into microbial biomass, while theremaining part in the soil is modi ﬁed by extracellular enzymes of microbes. At the end of itslife, microbial biomass contributes to the microbial molecular imprint of SOM asnecromass with speci ﬁc properties. Next to appropriate environmental conditions,heterotrophic microorganisms require energy-containing substrates with C, H, O, N,S, P, and many other elements for growth, which are provided by the plant material andthe nutrients contained in SOM. As easily degradable substrates are often scarceresources in soil, we can hypothesize that microbes optimize their carbon and energyuse. Presumably, microorganisms are able to mobilize biomass building blocks (monoand oligomers of fatty acids, amino acids, amino sugars, nucleotides) with the appropriatestoichiometry from microbial necromass in SOM. This is in contrast to mobilizing onlynutrients and consuming energy for new synthesis from primary metabolites of thetricarboxylic acid cycle after complete degradation of the substrates. Microbialnecromass is thus an important resource in SOM, and microbial mining of buildingblocks could be a life strategy contributing to priming effects and providing theresources for new microbial growth cycles. Due to the energy needs of microorganisms,we can conclude that the formation of SOM through microbial biomass depends on energyﬂux. However, speci ﬁc details and the variability of microbial growth, carbon use and decaycycles in the soil are not yet fully understood and linked to other ﬁelds of soil science. Here,we summarize the current knowledge on microbial energy gain, carbon use, growth, decay,and necromass formation for relevant soil processes, e. g. the microbial carbon pump, Cstorage, and stabilization. We highlight the factors controlling microbial necromasscontribution to SOM and the implications for soil carbon use ef ﬁciency (CUE) and weidentify research needs for process-based SOM turnover modelling and for understandingthe variability of these processes in various soil types under different climates.Keywords: microbial growth, energy, necromass, elemental stoichiometry, carbon use ef ﬁciency, energy useefﬁciency, nutrient mining, mineral interactionsEdited by:Rosa Francaviglia,Council for Agricultural andEconomics Research (CREA), ItalyReviewed by:Claire Chenu,AgroParisTech Institut des Sciences etIndustries du Vivant et deL’environnement, FranceGerrit Angst,Institute of Soil Biology (ASCR),CzechiaMarie Spohn,Swedish University of AgriculturalSciences, Sweden*Correspondence:M. Kästnermatthias.kaestner@ufz.deSpecialty section:This article was submitted toSoil Processes,a section of the journalFrontiers in Environmental ScienceReceived: 10 August 2021Accepted: 16 November 2021Published: 14 December 2021Citation:Kästner M, Miltner A, Thiele-Bruhn Sand Liang C (2021) MicrobialNecromass in Soils —Linking Microbesto Soil Processes andCarbon Turnover.Front. Environ. Sci. 9:756378.doi: 10.3389/fenvs.2021.756378Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 1REVIEWpublished: 14 December 2021doi: 10.3389/fenvs.2021.756378INTRODUCTIONA large amount of organic C in terrestrial ecosystems is stored in soilorganic matter (SOM), and was estimated as 1,500 –2,500 Pg C withsigniﬁcant losses within the last 200 years, for review see(Scharlemann et al., 2014 ) and the references therein. Therefore,knowledge-based management of SOM is needed. The amount of Cstored in SOM is a steady state between CO2ﬁxed in annual plantprimary production and the release from SOM by soil microbialdegradation and mineralization. Reduced C in the form of plantbiomass enters the soil and provides energy and C for the growth ofheterotrophic microbial decomposers. These microorganisms driveC and nutrient cycling and are thus relevant for many of theecosystem services that soils provide, e.g., C sequestration,nutrient retention, provision of food, ﬁbers and fuel, habitat fororganisms, water retention and puri ﬁcation, etc. ( Baveye et al., 2016 ).They transform many C sources to microbial biomass C that issubsequently distributed to various trophic levels of the soil fauna.For decades, microorganisms were thought to contribute to SOMmainly through their activity, i.e. degrading and modifying plantorganic matter, but this view has changed over the last decade.Research on soil C transformation and sequestration has shiftedtowards studying the processes of SOM formation ( Schimel andWeintraub, 2003 ;S c h m i d te ta l . ,2 0 1 1 ;Cotrufo et al., 2013 ;Lehmannand Kleber, 2015a ;Barre et al., 2018 ;Sokol et al., 2018 ;Sokol andBradford, 2019 ). This has also been accompanied by a shift inparadigms: SOM is increasingly seen as being comprised ofmolecules that are the result of microbial metabolism, includingmicrobial biomass components and microbial-processed plantcompounds ( Lehmann et al., 2008 ;Miltner et al., 2012 ;Wanget al., 2021b ). Microbe-mediated turnover of plant materials intostabilized SOM has long been conceptualized ( Guggenberger et al.,1999;Kögel-Knabner, 2002 ;Kögel-Knabner, 2017 ) but it is onlyrecently that evidence for a large contribution of microbial necromassto SOM formation has accumulated ( Craig et al., 2018 ;Kästner andMiltner, 2018 ;Liang et al., 2019 ;Liang et al., 2020 ). This evidence isbased on the NMR spectra of mi crobial biomolecules in SOM(Simpson et al., 2007 ), on speci ﬁc analyses of cell envelope aminosugars of bacteria and fungi ( Guggenberger et al., 1999 ;Amelung,2001;Appuhn and Joergensen, 2006 ;Fan and Liang, 2015 ;Lianget al., 2017 ), on turnover studies of microbial proteins and cellenvelope structures ( Rillig et al., 2007 ;Miltner et al., 2009 ;Miltneret al., 2012 ;Schweigert et al., 2015 ), on elemental stoichiometry andthe C:N ratio ( del Giorgio and Cole, 1998 ), or on SOM developmentfrom farmyard manure or de ﬁned substrate materials in arti ﬁcial soils(Pronk et al., 2013 ;Kallenbach et al., 2016 ;Pronk et al., 2017).Contributions of microbial biomass components to SOM wererecently summarized ( Starke et al., 2017 ;Liang et al., 2019 ;Angstet al., 2021 ;Wang et al., 2021a ;Wang et al., 2021b ) but also depend onmicrobial taxa ( Dong et al., 2021 ). Microbial contributions to SOMplay a much greater role in C sequestration into soils thantraditionally believed, particularly because a signi ﬁcant portion ofthose inputs were found to be sometimes stabilized more than plantinputs ( Ma et al., 2018 ). However, the speci ﬁc roles of microbial Cutilization, transformation, as well as necromass stabilizationprocesses in SOM and their interactions with ecosystemconditions, remain largely elusive. There seems to be adiscrepancy between the low amounts of living biomass and therelatively high amounts of residues of dead cells, showing not only ahigh formation and turnover of microbial biomass but also effectiveand preferential stabilization of microbial residues.Due to macromolecular aggregations, e.g., in cell envelopes,microbial biomolecules are partially stabilized by the complexcomposition of these materials. Th ey can be additionally stabilizedeither by aggregation with themselves or by physical interaction,sequestration, or trapping within the soil matrix and aggregates(Miltner et al., 2012 ;Liang et al., 2017 ;Kästner and Miltner,2018). A signi ﬁcant part of these materials is normally present inparticulate matter of nm size: colloidal proteins, ribosomes, or cellenvelope fragments. Based on i t ss i z e ,t h i sm a t e r i a li sb yd e ﬁnitionpart of the dissolved organic C fraction ( <0.45μm, DOC)(Bridgewater, 2012 ). Recent calculations based on microbial cellenvelope residues inferred by amino sugar analysis of 122 soil sitesamples showed an average contribution of microbial necromass toSOM varying between 33% in forest soils and up to 62% in grasslands(Liang et al., 2019 ). The concept of microbial biomass formationcombined with mineral matrix stabilization ( Cotrufo et al., 2013 )h a sbeen conceptualized to a soil “microbial C pump, ”MCP (as ananalogy to the marine “carbon pump ”(Jiao et al., 2010 )) in whichmicrobes degrade plant-derived C to produce own biomass, which iss t a b i l i z e dl a t e ra sn e c r o m a s sb yv a r i o u sp r o c e s s e so fm i n e r a linteraction and in soil aggregates ( Liang et al., 2017 ;Liang et al.,2020). In terrestrial systems, this “pump ”transforms microbe-synthesized compounds into SOM where they are stabilized in akind of “entombing ”effect ( Liang et al., 2017 ); however, detailedunderstanding of these processes is still a scienti ﬁcc h a l l e n g e( Liang,2020;Zhu et al., 2020 ). In order to step forward from empiricalunderstanding towards mechanisti c process control, we need to relatethe MCP idea to the details of the microbial growth and decay cycleprocesses, as well as post mortem modi ﬁcations of biomoleculescombined with matrix stabilization including the effects of redoxcycling. Therefore, we need to recall the principles and factors ofmicrobial energy and C use, and this knowledge needs to bethoroughly and consistently used in soil science.In order to understand C transf ormation and sequestration insoils, an approach that focuses only on C pools and C storage withoutconsidering energy and matter ﬂuxes is too limited ( Waring et al.,2020;Manzoni et al., 2021 ). Soil fertility and many other soil functionsdepend on the activity of various soil microbial communities and thuson continuous energy and C ﬂuxes through the soil system ( Janzen,2015;Waring et al., 2020 ;M a n z o n ie ta l . ,2 0 2 1 ). For maintainingmicrobial diversity and ecosystem functions in soil including Cstorage, both ﬂuxes and stoichiometry issues need to beconsidered. More information on the link between element cyclingand energy ﬂuxes is thus necessary in orde r to understand C turnoverand sequestration in terrestria l ecosystems. Here we provide aconceptual synopsis about mic roorganisms as drivers for SOMformation, with the potential fo r an improved understanding of Csequestration processes in soils. Our goal is to relate microbial growthbehavior and energy consumption to bio- and necromass formationin SOM. In addition, we aim to establish the relationship with thefactors controlling necromass stabilization in SOM, together witht h e i ri m p l i c a t i o n so nCu s ee f ﬁciency (CUE) and nutrient cycling.Finally, we identify resulting open questions and research needs inFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 2Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsSOM turnover research, including suggestions for the improvementof SOM contents.MICROBES NEED ENERGY FOR GROWTHAND MAINTENANCEMost of the solar energy retained in C by plant primary productionenters soil ( >90%) ( Gessner et al., 2010 ), nurturing ecosystems andbiodiversity. Megatons of organic matter per hectare with hundredsof gigajoule of Gibbs energy are intermediately stored in the soil oni t sw a yt h r o u g hf o o dw e b su n t i lt h e r ei sa ﬁnal mineralization andrelease of this energy as heat and entropy ( von Stockar, 2010 ).Microbial bio- and necromass thus represent intermediate stages ofC and energy retained in SOM.Energy Fluxes, Redox Couples, andMicrobial MetabolismAll living organisms need energy, C sources, and nutrients toaccommodate their requirements for maintenance metabolism,growth, and activity. In soils, some microorganisms arephotolithoautotrophs (green algae, cyanobacteria) orchemolithoautotrophs that use inorganic molecules, e.g. NH4+orFe2+as energy sources and electron donors as well as CO 2as Csource; for more details see ( Lengler et al., 1999 ;Schink, 2006 ).However, most of the microorganisms in soil arechemoorganoheterotrophs and organic molecules are their C andenergy sources. The C of these organic substrates can be sharedbetween catabolism ( /equalsdegradation) and anabolism withbiomolecule synthesis and eventually growth. Thereby thecatabolism provides the energy for the anabolism ( Figure 1 ).Under starvation or unbalanced elemental supply conditions insoil, anabolic C turnover can be decoupled from catabolicprocesses, resulting in variable C use from different substrates.However, no anabolism is possible without energy gain fromcatabolism ( Russel and Cook, 1995 ;Lengler et al., 1999 ).Degradation processes in catabolism apply irrespective of theorigin of the substrates for both plant materials and microbialnecromass. The turnover of microbial bio- and necromassenables element cycling of N and P through microbial food webs(Kästner and Miltner, 2018 ). Productive degradation of a substrate,combined with cycling of biomass building blocks, can increase theoverall amount of biomass produced.Energy is the driver of all biotic processes in nature and energymetabolism depends on redox reactions that couple two proceedinghalf-reactions (oxidation and reduction). The total energy gain ( ΔG,Gibbs energy) is the energy balance of the half-reactions inheterotrophic organisms: 1) the oxidation of C substrates, oftento CO2, and 2) the transfer of released electrons to terminal electronacceptors in respiration processes, e.g. the reduction of O 2to H 2O(Russel and Cook, 1995 ;Schink, 2006 ). The energy gain from theoxidation of substrates varies with different electron acceptors; O 2aselectron acceptor sustains the highest turnover rates of organicmatter ( Schink, 2006 ). Microbial activity generally reduces theredox potential and O2content in the vicinity of the cells.Alternative electron acceptors such as NO 3−,F e3+,M n4+/3+,S O 42-can also be used, but with decreasing energy gains due to lower redoxpotentials. Anoxic electron acceptors result in various degradationefﬁciencies of molecule classes, which results in selective stabilization(Keiluweit et al., 2017 ). Thermodynamics can thus providemechanistic explanations for SOM formation and turnover andfor understanding soil processes in general.Microbial Growth and MaintenanceMicrobial growth and biomass formation by anabolism in soilsdepends on many factors such as 1) soil properties, texture, andenvironmental conditions (pH, clay and SOM content as well ashumidity, aeration, temperature), 2) the presence and general activityof potential litter degraders in microbial communities, and 3) theavailability of nutrients, electron acceptors, and substrates(Gavrilescu, 2005 ;Waring et al., 2020 ). Bioavailability is controlledFIGURE 1 | Simpli ﬁed sketch of microbial metabolism under growth conditions: C and energy from substrate degradation feeds anabolism with biomass formation.Microbial mining of nutrients and additional substrates –a concept to explain variation of carbon use ef ﬁciency (CUE) small amounts of SOM or biomass “building ”blocks ’result in higher biomass yield from main substrates; more C and energy from the substrates can be allocated towards biomass formation resulting in hig her CUE and Cretention because of lower energy requirements for biomass synthesis.Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 3Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsby the characteristics of the substrate (water solubility, molecular size,Koc/Kowvalues) as well as their interaction with other components ofthe soil matrix, e.g., dissolution, sorption, aggregation, andentrapment ( Bollag and Liu, 1990 ;Sims et al., 1990 ;Gavrilescu, 2005 ).Under optimal conditions with ideal water contents, electronacceptor availability, nutrient and substrate supply, the growthrates of microorganisms depend on available C and energysubstrate concentrations. For growth, each cell needs to divert aminimum substrate ﬂux in order to maintain metabolism, cellintegrity, and survival (the maintenance threshold ( van Uden,1967;van Bodegom, 2007 )). Thus, minimum substrate and energyﬂuxes signi ﬁcantly different from zero are needed, even if cells do notgrow. Low concentrations of substrates or low turnover rates due tolimited supply conditions may not provide suf ﬁcient energy for thismaintenance metabolism, resulting in dormancy or spore formationand eventually in cell death ( Kovarova and Egli, 1998 ). For a longtime it was thought that the maintenance rates of various bacteria aswell as death rates and growth yields were nearly constant over widesubstrate ranges, but this view has changed ( van Bodegom, 2007 ).More detailed examinations with a model bacterium showed thatfast-growing bacteria die faster upon substrate deprivation and havelower biomass yields due to increased maintenance requirements(Biselli et al., 2020 ). This means that growth rates are positivelycorrelated to maintenance needs and death rates; however, they arenegatively correlated with biomass yields and increasing growth ratescan thus result in decreasing biom a s sy i e l d sr e l a t i v et os u b s t r a t euptake. Higher growth rates thus can lower C retention in biomassresulting in highly ﬂexible microbial C use in soil. Slow-growing cellso nt h eo t h e rh a n ds u r v i v el o n g e rd u et ol o w e rm a i n t e n a n c erequirements ( Russel and Cook, 1995 ) and have an evolutionaryadvantage in environments where substrate supply varies over time(Kovarova and Egli, 1998 ;van Bodegom, 2007 ;Biselli et al., 2020 ).This advantage is based on lower maintenance needs and thus theability to survive longer ( Kovarova and Egli, 1998 ;van Bodegom,2007;Biselli et al., 2020 ). Not surprisingly, the maintenancerequirements and survival of organisms also depend on therecycling yield from dead cells in microbial cultures. Organismsusually feed on their deceased neighbors and the recycling yield isexponentially related to the growth rate ( Biselli et al., 2020 ). Underoptimal growth conditions a recycling yield of 12% can be obtained.In other words, only eight dead cells are needed to produce one newcell, which supports the hypothesis that microbes are capable ofgenerally mining microbial necromass. The requirements are muchlower under more limited conditions. This mining can explain whymicrobes in deeper soil layers can survive by merely feeding on thenecromass seeping downwards; the availability of these resourcesdirectly regulates the C use ( Ludwig et al., 2015 ;Ni et al., 2020 ).With decreasing concentrations of degradable SOMcompounds, the overall growth in soil decreases ( Kästner andMiltner, 2018 ;Zheng et al., 2019 ). However, the activity ofmicroorganisms is determined by the energy content of thesubstrates, the availability of nutrients, terminal electronacceptors as well as soil water contents, and typically by themost limiting factor ( Russel and Cook, 1995 ;Lengler et al., 1999 ;Waring et al., 2020 ). For optimum growth, all factors required bythe soil microorganisms have to match their needs. This does notonly include C but also other nutrients in the requiredstoichiometric ratios. The growth of soil microorganisms is oftenlimited by one of these factors, which then controls the growth yieldand energy use ef ﬁciency (EUE /equalsenergy retained in the system,here in biomass or SOM) ( Harris et al., 2012 ). The ratio of C usedfor biomass production ( /equalsgrowth) in anabolism over total substrateCu s e( /equalsC used for growth + respired C) has been deﬁned as yieldcoefﬁcients (Y X/S) in microbiology ( Schink, 2006 )w h i c hi ss i m i l a rto C use ef ﬁciency (CUE) ( del Giorgio and Cole, 1998 ).The organic matter of the photoauthotrophic primary producersenters the soil as litter and root exudates ( Schmidt et al., 2011 ;Lehmann and Kleber, 2015b ;Janzen, 2015 ;Paul, 2016 ). Litter mostlyconsists of macroscopically vis ible aggregated plant-derivedbiopolymers (such as starch, cellulose, and lignin); for details see(Kögel-Knabner, 2017 ) and the references therein. Due to their largemolecular size, these compounds cannot be taken up bymicroorganisms (with cell sizes of a just a few μm), because thetransport across the cell envelope is considered to be limited tosmaller molecules ( <600 –1,000 Da) ( E k s c h m i t te ta l . ,2 0 0 8 ;Lehmann and Kleber, 2015a ). Similarly, microbial biomass andtheir aggregates of proteins, nucleic acids, cell envelopefragments, and extracellular polymeric substances are alsomacromolecules, but of a much smaller size in the order of nm.All of these macromolecules need to be depolymerized (oftenhydrolyzed) to oligomers outside of microbial cells byextracellular enzymes before they can be taken up as substrates(Schimel and Weintraub, 2003 ;Kästner and Miltner, 2018 ).Microorganisms producing extracellular enzymes were shown tohave a lower growth yield than non-producers ( Malik et al., 2019 ).The accumulation of microbial necromass alters the relative C and Nlimitation during litter decomposition and accelerates N cycling,ultimately resulting in increased SOM content. Such effects partlydecouple C and N use and the spatial heterogeneity may explaindifferent C and N turnover dynamics and stabilization in SOM. Theresulting monomers and oligomers can then be taken up bymicroorganisms and used for cell maintenance and growth.Due to their rapid consumption, such low-molecular-weightcompounds are only present at very low steady-state concentrationsin the soil, although the ﬂux into the cells may be considerable(Schimel and Schaeffer, 2012 ). Sorption reactions often take placevery quickly and can reduce the availability of substrates formicroorganisms, resulting in a competition between uptake withdegradation by microorganisms and external reactions. Asbioavailability of C substrates and nutrients is often limited insoil, starving microorganisms are eager to take up whatever they areable to access and able to degrade ( Schimel and Schaeffer, 2012 ;Waring et al., 2020 ). Described transport mechanisms for theuptake of organic molecules into microbes are ( Lengler et al.,1999;Madigan et al., 2014 ): 1) diffusion, or 2) porin-mediatedtransporter systems, which are typically transmembrane tunnelproteins in the cell membrane that can be associated to electrontransfer, acceptor molecules, or a phosphorylation process. Theabundance and properties of such porines can be modulated by themicroorganisms and depend on environmental and growthconditions as well as exposition to substrates and chemicals(Denyer and Maillard, 2002). In addition, facilitated transport ofmolecules into degrading microbial cells by unknown mechanismsrelated to carrier molecules, e.g. by the presence of humic acids orFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 4Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsparticularly after compost addition, has also been described (Li et al.,2021; Adam et al.). Even sorbed compounds can be degraded ( Fengand Boyd, 2008 ) and for Gram-positive bacteria the uptake ofN-containing compounds of much higher molecular size, e.g.proteins even from sites of strong sorption, has been observed(Enggrob et al., 2020 ).Temperature, water and O 2contents of a soil are all importantregulators of plant primary production, soil microbial activity, andenergy use, controlling the input and compound turnover in the soilsystem. Access to water is vital for bacterial and fungal biodegradationand growth ( Moyano et al., 2013 ;Rath et al., 2017 )a n dal a c ko fb i o -accessible water leads to limited depolymerization and degradation ingeneral ( Masoom et al., 2016 ). In addition, O2limitations may be theleast understood regulators of SOM turnover ( Keiluweit et al., 2017 ).This is also valid for microbial growth and necromass stabilizationrelated to redox cycling. The importance of temporary anaerobicconditions for SOM accumulation is underlined by results from wetrice-cropping in paddy soils, which show a profound enrichment ofSOM over 2000 years ( Kalbitz et al., 2013 ).Moreover, self-organization and interaction dynamics indecomposer communities are generally assumed in soils and canresult in increased biomass amounts as SOM is thought to be utilizedby functionally redundant soil-speci ﬁc microbial communities(Rillig et al., 2015 ;Fierer, 2017 ). Based on the modellingapproach of Allison (2005) ,Kaiser et al. (2014) ;Kaiser et al.(2015) showed that SOM development depends not only on thestoichiometric response of microbes to a high C:N ratio substrate butalso on the community dynamics. They showed that the activity ofmicrobes producing extracellular enzymes ( “decomposers ”)a n dmicrobes exploiting the catalytic activities of others ( “cheaters ”)lead to the regulation of SOM turnover. The presence of“cheaters ”increased N retention by down-regulation of the ratioof extracellular enzymes to total microbial biomass, resulting inincreased bio- and necromass formation. This resulted in increasedN-rich necromass accumulation, increased C retention, decreasedturnover rates, and an increase in spatial heterogeneity ofmicroorganisms and necromass distribution.ThermodynamicsIn spite of the importance of energy ﬂuxes through the soilsystems, thermodynamics have only partly been considered forsoil systems ( Bosatta and Agren, 1999 ;Lueders et al., 2004 ;HarrisDeﬁnitions boxMicrobial biomass biomass of bacteria, archaea, fungi, viruses/phages, and microfaunaMicrobial necromass biomass residues after cell death, including fragments and macro-molecular residues from microbial biomassMicrobial building blocks building blocks of microbial biomass: mono and oligomers of fatty acids, amino acids and peptides, aminosugars and peptidoglycan, nucleotides and nucleic acidsTricarboxylic acid cycle (TCC) central metabolism cycle of most microorganisms from which either energy is derived, or biomass componentsare synthesizedCentral metabolites central metabolites of the TCC from which biomass building blocks can be synthesized.Anabolism biochemical pathways to build up biomoleculesCatabolism biochemical pathways to degrade and ﬁnally mineralize organic moleculesNutrients macro and micro elements needed for synthesis of biomassGrowth synthesis of living microbial biomassGrowth rate growth per time unitYield (growth yield) amount of biomass synthesized per amount of substrate degraded (consumed for biomass synthesis andmineralized)Maintenance substrate consumption needed to maintain the integrity of a living cell (cell membrane)Maintenance rate substrate consumption for maintenance per time unitDeath loss of membrane integrity of a microbial cell, loss of viabilityDeath rate amount of dead biomass per time unitCarbon use ef ﬁciency (CUE) carbon retained in soil per amount of substrate consumedEnergy use ef ﬁciency (EUE) energy retained in soil (biomass) per amount of energy consumedCﬂux amount of C introduced per time unitEnergy ﬂux amount of energy introduced per time unitDelta G amount of energy released from chemical reactions; here of biotic coupled redox reactions, e. g. from glucose +oxygen /equals>CO2+ waterStoichiometry ratio of elements, here ratio of elements C, H, O, N, S, P. A particular stoichiometry is needed to meet microbialbiomass elemental compositionC:N ratio ratio of C to N, unit indicative for organic matter from plant or microbial biomassMineral association (mineral associated organicmatter, MOM)here, organic material associated to:- surfaces of minerals in general- soil aggregates- biomolecular aggregations (biomass or necromass) encrusted by solid precipitates of metals, carbonates, silicates etc.Redox cycling repeated increase and decrease of redox potential, e.g. by alternating water saturation and drying of soilFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 5Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationset al., 2012 ;Di Lonardo et al., 2017 ;Manzoni et al., 2021 ), buthave been applied predominantly to technological, chemical, andbiochemical processes, such as the production of proteins, and inorder to determine the energy use, heat production, and nutrientrequirements ( Westerhoff et al., 1982 ;McCarty, 2007 ;Xiao andVanBriesen, 2008 ;Kleerebezem and Van Loosdrecht, 2010 ). Thedetermination of thermodynamic state variables has been appliedto soil or natural organic matter processes only in a handful ofcases ( Barros and Feijóo, 2003 ;Barros et al., 2007 ;Herrmannet al., 2014 ;Barros et al., 2016 ;Boye et al., 2018 ).Currie (2003)identi ﬁed the link between energy and C content in the soil bycombining the principle of energy balance with a biogeochemicalprocess model and using calorimetric analysis of different littermaterials and soil samples for parameterization of the turnoverprocesses. However, the main obstacle for considering energyﬂuxes was the dif ﬁculty in ﬁnding suitable experimentalapproaches that link energy to matter ﬂuxes in soil systems.For soil they have to be related to complex and diverse energy-consuming processes and including the formation of microbialbiomass, necromass, and subsequently SOM ( Chakrawal et al.,2020 ;Barros, 2021 ).Thermodynamic properties of low-molecular-weight organiccompounds have been related to their elemental composition andthe nominal oxidation state of C (NOSC) in organic compounds(including SOM) and were suggested as a proxy for the potentialrelease of Gibbs energy during the oxidative degradation of thesecompounds ( LaRowe and van Cappellen, 2011 ). The NOSC wasthen used to explain qualitatively the linkage between organic Ctransformation, soil microbial communities and land use/management ( Keiluweit et al., 2017 ). However, NOSC was notfound to explain the preferential substrate use of various organiccompounds in pure culture experiments ( Cyle et al., 2020 ).Emphasizing the thermodynamic potential factors as a drivingforce for microbial metabolism ( Ji and Bethke, 2007 ),thermodynamic constraints were shown to lead to a limiteddegradation of highly reduced compounds (e.g., lipids) underanoxic conditions ( Keiluweit et al., 2017 ), resulting in the relativeenrichment of such compounds in anoxic microsites of soilaggregates. Thermodynamic aspects thus play a much moreimportant role in SOM protection and stabilization than waspreviously assumed.Quantitative approaches using thermodynamics in the soil arecurrently limited to de ﬁned organic compounds. The potentialgrowth yield of microbes feeding on a certain compound has beenmodelled in order to predict their turnover to biomass in soils(Brock et al., 2017 ;Trapp et al., 2018 ), including stabilization inSOM. The Microbial Turnover to Biomass (MTB) model is basedon the estimation of the energy available for biomass formation(growth) obtained from the catabolic reactions of a substrate. Themodel calculates the electron transfers that can be exploited bymicroorganisms from the substrate to the respective electronacceptors for a speci ﬁc turnover equation ( Brock et al., 2017 ;Trapp et al., 2018 ); it predicts the resulting potential microbialyields and enables the formation of biomass and necromass to berelated to the CO2released, hence it enables a direct link topotential C use in soil. The approach can be applied for manyorganic compounds in order to predict their potentialcontribution to microbial biomass formation and ultimatelythe stabilization of organic compounds in the soil.Considering the thermodynamic issues, we can conclude thatenergy is needed for SOM formation through microbial growthand the decay cycle in which some energy is retained within thenecromass. A comparison of the total Gibbs energy released froman oxidation reaction with the potential energy available formicrobial growth provides an estimate of the actual energyretention within microbial biomass and later necromass in asoil in relation to the release as heat and may provide a soundbasis for further research approaches for improving SOMcontents.MICROBES CONVERT PLANTMACRO-POLYMERS TO MICROBIALBIOMASS WITH MICRO-POLYMERSCarbon Use Ef ﬁciency (CUE),Stoichiometry, and Energy StorageThere are still huge gaps in our understanding of C conversionand microbial CUE in soils, which is de ﬁned as the C stored in soilper substrate consumed ( del Giorgio and Cole, 1998 ;Mooshammer et al., 2014 ;Nunan et al., 2015 ;Spohn, 2016 ;Spohn et al., 2016 ;Manzoni et al., 2018 ;Geyer et al., 2019 ;Manzoni et al., 2021 ). CUE will always be lower than 1 andthe empirically determined upper limit is 0.6 (Roels, 1980); it isnot a constant value and depends on the microbial physiologyand the environmental conditions (temperature, water content,electron acceptor availability). CUE was often expected to beconstant; however, the related CUE in complex environmentalsystems must be calculated based upon the sum of all consumedsubstrates and thus it may be variable ( Manzoni et al., 2021 ). CUEis a key parameter that is closely linked with the biotic energy useprinciples on all trophic levels and that varies with the input of Cand energy of the substrates and the speci ﬁc environmentalconditions. Reports consider various in ﬂuencing factors suchas depolymerization of plant matter, substrate elementalcomposition (stoichiometry), substrate molecular structure,and nutrient availability ( Liu et al., 2016 ;Spohn et al., 2016 ;Takriti et al., 2018 ). However, microbial necromass as a substrateand nutrient resource also plays a signi ﬁcant role. Due to thevariation and environmental conditions of soils, the CUE wasobserved in the range of 0.3 –0.55 ( Sinsabaugh et al., 2016 ;Soaresand Rousk, 2019 ). Substantial differences in CUE weredetermined by various methods targeting different aspects ofmicrobial metabolism, e.g. general growth, biomarker formation,energy gain by ATP formation, etc. ( Geyer et al., 2019 ). CUEbased on the assimilation of radiolabeled thymine and acetateoften provide relatively low values (0.03 –0.3) ( Soares and Rousk,2019 ). These differences complicate comparisons of CUEreported in different studies.CUE in soils shows an expected high sensitivity and negativecorrelation to temperature ( Manzoni et al., 2012 ). The responseof CUE to short-term changes in temperature and moisture aswell as O2content was found to depend mainly on microbialFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 6Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsgrowth response and not on respiration responses in various soilsand land use types ( Zheng et al., 2019 ). The C:N ratios of plantinputs are negatively correlated to CUE; the highest CUE interrestrial ecosystems are found with plant input material C:Nratios around 10, which are in the range of microbial biomass C/N(Manzoni et al., 2012 ). Such materials meet the stoichiometricrequirements for microbial biomass production and thus favormicrobial growth. CUE declines as resource C:N moves furtheraway from biomass stoichiometry but also depends on theavailability of inorganic and organic N ( Manzoni et al., 2008 ;Manzoni et al., 2021 ). Under N-limited conditions, CUE isreduced and nitrogen use ef ﬁciency (NUE) is maximized,whereas under non-limited conditions NUE decreases(Mooshammer et al., 2014 ). Conversely, C:N:P stoichiometryregulates SOM mineralization; N and P provision increasesbiomass formation and lowers CO2emission ( Wei et al.,2020 ). In addition, soil warming increases growth, decreasesCUE and increases microbial turnover to CO 2,ﬁnally affectingSOM dynamics, see Figure 2 (Li et al., 2019b ). With the focus onnecromass, high CUE in soils occurred by necromass retention inrelation to the substrate consumption for biomass production,and is thus a matter of microbial physiology as well as of matterand energy ﬂuxes. Therefore, we can hypothesize that rapiddegradation processes of a pulsed substrate input and therelated microbial growth result in peak energy and C ﬂuxesthrough the soil, whereas slow processes result in muchbroader ﬂux behavior with higher overall C and energyretention ( Figure 2 ). This results in higher cumulativemicrobial biomass formation as the organisms are able tomeet their maintenance requirements over longer periods oftime, translating into more necromass and SOM formation.In addition to C and energy, microorganisms need otherelements, such as H, O, N, etc. at appropriate stoichiometricratios for homoeostatic growth. The elemental composition ofmicrobial biomass may vary from C4H7O1,5N(Lengler et al.,1999 )t oC 5H7O2N(Christensen and McCarty, 1975 ) andC5H8O0,8N(Rittmann and McCarty, 2001 ), with C:N ratios ofabout 4-5 in microbial cultures. In addition, small amounts of Pand S as well as trace elements (e.g. Fe, K, Mg, Ca) must beavailable ( Lengler et al., 1999 ). Soil microbial biomass C:N ratioswere reported to be higher, ranging from 4.5 to 12.5, with 7 as agenerally accepted average ( Xu et al., 2013 ;Mooshammer et al.,2014 ). Soil microorganisms usually grow on plant litter material,which has higher C:N ratios than microbial biomass. TheFIGURE 2 | Energy and C ﬂuxes through SOM triggered by environmental conditions: transitions of “peak ﬂow”to much broader ﬂux behavior and vice versa;factors causing variation of microbial growth, maintenance and death rates, biomass yield, and ﬁnally necromass retention in SOM resulting in variation of CUE and EUE.Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 7Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsmicroorganisms have several options to meet their stoichiometricrequirements, e.g. they could preferentially degrade nutrient-richcompounds from plant matter, mine SOM for speci ﬁc elements,or utilize other substrates with the excess C released into theenvironment. In addition, living microorganisms can also recyclecell internal materials ( Spohn et al., 2016 ;Capek et al., 2021 ). Theelemental needs are the key element of the theory of ecologicalstoichiometry and are one of the potential mechanisms for avariation in CUE and priming effects in soils ( Nunan et al., 2015 ;Spohn et al., 2016 ). From turnover analyses of organiccompounds in the soil we know that multiple C sources areoften used by microbes in order to obtain the optimumstoichiometry by “mixing ”substrate molecules ( Kovarova andEgli, 1998 ;Brock et al., 2019 ;Cyle et al., 2020 ).CUE in soil cannot be related to the transformation of a singlesubstrate, because soil microbial communities use different Csources at the same time, which is also related to thestoichiometry needs. CUE is thus notoriously dif ﬁcult toanalyze related to both method and system properties ( Geyeret al., 2016 ;Geyer et al., 2019 ;Li et al., 2019b ). This, together withthe pronounced effect of environmental boundary conditions,results in the observed variability of CUE, re ﬂecting the plasticityof microbes reacting to their overall growth conditions ( Anthonyet al., 2020 ). The CUE concept relates C turnover to microbialgrowth and provides much deeper insight into the relevantprocesses of C dynamics when considering biomass and theresulting necromass formation as substrate and nutrientresources in soil. However, over the last decade the role ofenergy ﬂuxes has hardly been given any consideration, withthe main focus having been on the turnover of C, N, and P.Combined mass turnover and energy balances enable evaluationof the amount of energy derived from C sources degradation aswell as the amount of energy retained in soil by microbial biomass(Barros and Feijóo, 2003 ;Barros, 2021 ).Microbial Resource MiningWith every microbial compound oxidation, a part of the energy isdissipated as heat, whereas the remainder may be used for drivingmicrobial anabolism and growth. The additional use of necromassas a source of building blocks for microbial biomass (here de ﬁnedas amino acids and peptides, amino sugars and peptidoglycanoligomers, fatty acids and lipids, nucleotides and nucleic acids ofmicrobial origin) may improve growth yield, CUE and EUEconsiderably. For microorganisms, it is economic not to degradeall substrate molecules to central metabolites of the tricarboxylicacid cycle and then synthesize the complex biomolecules fromthese metabolites (see Figure 3 and also Figure 1 ). Recycling ofbuilding blocks from microbial necromass thus saves considerableenergy, which would otherwise be needed to re-synthesize suchcompounds.FIGURE 3 | Microbial turnover fed by plant primary production with mining of nutrients in soil: (A)full degradation cycle resulting in mineralization with new synthesisof microbial biomass from primary metabolites of the tricarboxylic acid cycle, typically considered in microbiology, (B)microbial resource mining (building block miningfrom microbial necromass with appropriate stoichiometry) in addition to full degradation, which is much more effective, because a lower part of the s ubstrate ismineralized with lower energy demand for anabolism and growth (The viral shunt in soil may provide similar resources during the lytic cycle in bacteri a).Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 8Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsBased on these energy considerations, we suggest anextended mining concept of SOM decomposition, which doesnot only focus on the stoichiometry of elements ( Mooshammeret al., 2014 ;Zechmeister-Boltenstern et al., 2015 )b u to nm i n i n gof biomass building blocks that can be mobilized by livingmicrobes. The use of biomolecules from microbial necromassimproves the energy budgets and ﬂuxes of the cells, as they donot need to consume energy for their synthesis. Microbialnecromass is a good mining substrate, as the elemental andchemical composition is similar to microbial biomass and theenzymes for the depolymerization and re-polymerization aregenerally present in the cells. U sing building blocks enablesbetter microbial growth and biomass yields. In comparison,plant detritus has a much higher C:N ratio, is more dif ﬁcult todegrade and requires depolymeri zation by exoenzymes, whereasplant exudates in the vicinity of roots may also directly providebuilding blocks.Accordingly, a direct incorporation of labelled fatty acids fromPLFA into Actinobacteria has been observed ( Apostel et al.,2018 ). The observed higher priming effects after the additionof a single amino acid to soils compared to glucose and inorganicN(Mason-Jones et al., 2018 ) also support the “microbial resourcemining ”hypothesis, because amino acids and peptides providedas building blocks stimulate growth and additional mining.Position-speci ﬁc13C label showed a much higher meanresidence time of ribose compared to glucose in soils,indicating the reuse or preservation of intact ribose-derivedcell components in SOM ( Bore et al., 2019 ). The addition ofbiomass building blocks (yeast extract) compared to glucosealone actually increased the amount of active enzymes andmicrobial yield in a forest soil, but did not increase theaveraged growth rates or mineralization of the soil(Loeppmann et al., 2020 ). In addition, fungi were shown tomobilize resources from Gram-negative necromass anddistribute it within the microbial food web ( Zheng et al.,2021 ). In a rhizosphere soil an active Saccharibacterium wasidenti ﬁed, which lacks genes for nucleotide synthesis ( Starr et al.,2018 ) and thus depends on the uptake of complete nucleotides forDNA and RNA synthesis. Growing evidence shows that N miningcan be considered to be directly targeting N-containing buildingblocks from microbial necromass, since a large part of N in SOMis derived from microbial products ( Mooshammer et al., 2014 ).However, the stabilization of microbial necromass in soilsystems limits the availability for mining and is thus acompeting process. Depending on the availability of nutrients,other substrates, and the biochemical effort for mining buildingblocks, soil microbes optimize their resource utilization in orderto achieve maximum growth but with minimum energy loss(Westerhoff et al., 1982 ;Kovarova and Egli, 1998 ;Roller andSchmidt, 2015 ). This allows optimum growth and maintenance(/equalstrade-off between rate and ef ﬁciency) under the givenenvironmental conditions, and suggests that the MaximumPower Principle ( Odum and Pinkerton, 1955 ) is relevant forthe formation of SOM through microbial necromass.Reports are inconsistent about the role of in ﬂuencingfactors, but the existence of optimized microbial regulationof CUE has been demonstrated along resource stoichiometrygradients ( Craine et al., 2007 ;Manzoni et al., 2017 ;Manzoniet al., 2018 ). Increased availability of nutrients (either inorganic or inorganic form) allows microorganisms to usemore C for microbial growth, whereas nutrient de ﬁciencyresults in less C allocation to growth and more tomineralization. The supplementation of soils with easilydegradable organic compoun ds leads to priming effectsresulting in an immediate response of the SOM turnover(Kuzyakov, 2010 ). Although the processes underlyingpriming effects are still elusive, they are presumably linkedto microbial resource mining.TURNOVER AND STABILIZATION OFMICROBIAL NECROMASSTurnover of Microbial BiomassPredation by other organisms ( Richter et al., 2019 ) and inparticular phage lysis play important roles in determiningmicrobial survival and death in the soil and in releasingmicrobial cell material ( Kuzyakov and Mason-Jones, 2018 ).Viruses are extremely abundant in the soil (up to 1010viralparticles g−1soil ( Williamson et al., 2017 ); and thus infection andlysis of the cells are major factors for microbial life and death insoils. After death, microbial cells start to decay and the integrity ofthe cell membrane is no longer given ( Lengler et al., 1999 ).Microbial necromass can be considered as a continuum fromactive biomass to necromass in all stages of decay or stabilization(Kästner and Miltner, 2018 ). Necromass, including cell envelopefragments, is material for degradation reactions in soil, since it isintrinsically biodegradable and will be metabolized according tothe same rules and principles as described for organic substratesand plant materials in general. However, due to the much smallersize of microbial biomass materials and cell envelope fragments,the depolymerization and degradation may be facilitated incomparison to plant detritus material. In addition, mining ofbioavailable necromass supports the formation of new biomass,which partly ends up as necromass again within the microbialfood web of necromass turnover ( Lueders et al., 2006 ), especiallyin deeper soil layers ( Ludwig et al., 2015 ;Angst et al., 2018 ;Niet al., 2020 ). The necromass can be decomposed by enzymes inthe soil matrix that are either present as exoenzymes or releasedby cell autolysis ( Miltner et al., 2012 ;Schimel and Schaeffer,2012 ). In addition, mechanical disruption of the residual cellenvelopes by physical processes, e.g., shrinking and swelling ofSOM as well as soil mixing due to bioturbation by macrofaunamay also determine the fate ( Bohlen et al., 2004 ;Basile-Doelschet al., 2020 ). The ultimate fate of the necromass then depends onmany factors: microbial decay, clay content, Fe or Al oxides, watercontent and pore system of the soil aggregates ( Schimel et al.,2007 ).Stabilization of NecromassMicrobial necromass (including cell envelope fragments) can bestabilized within the soil matrix through its small size, spatialconformation, and by interaction with itself, e.g., by the formationof stacks of cell-wall fragments that may hamper degradation dueFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 9Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsto limited accessibility of the interior regions ( Miltner et al., 2012 ;Buckeridge et al., 2020 ). Necromass may easily be occluded in soilaggregates and therefore not be bioavailable for degradation.Interactions of biomolecules with other organic and mineralmatter can occur by ionic or hydrogen bonds or hydrophobicinteractions ( Galicia-Andres et al., 2021 ). However, various typesof biomolecules are partly stabilized in SOM to different extents:proteins >bulk biomass C >lipids (e.g. PLFA) ( Kindler et al.,2006 ;Kindler et al., 2009 ;Miltner et al., 2009 ;Spence et al., 2011 ;Miltner et al., 2012 ). An overarching stabilization process of SOMand necromass can also be caused by the formation ofhydrophobic domains with a decreased chemical activity ofwater ( Masoom et al., 2016 ) by drying processes, or by loss ofpore water connectivity. The authors impressively providedevidence that around 75% of the necromass-derived SOMmaterial is actually not in contact with water.In addition, post mortem modi ﬁcations of biomasscomponents can be hypothesized, in particular for proteins,peptidoglycans and chitins, which can alter these materialsand cause their stabilization, and may mask them for analysis.This could well be one reason why the high contribution ofstabilized biomolecules in SOM has been overlooked for decades(Simpson et al., 2007 ). Necromass –necromass interactionsthrough ionic or hydrogen bonds or hydrophobic interactionshave recently been demonstrated ( Buckeridge et al., 2020 ;Galicia-Andres et al., 2021 ). However, if we consider post-mortemmodi ﬁcations for both plant- and microbe-derived molecules,there must be some molecules resulting from these modi ﬁcations.These modi ﬁcations may be derived from bridging by metalcations or hydrogen bonds ( Galicia-Andres et al., 2021 ),multiple cross-linking of proteins, peptidoglycan,lipopolysaccharides and nucleic acids, which can no longer bedirectly identi ﬁed as the original molecule classes. For example,amorphous Fe precipitation may coat ribosomes of cellularorigin. Such processes may be of high interest and particularlyvalid for proteins, since some authors found up to 100% of N inSOM may be present in amide bonds ( Knicker, 2011 ).The conversion of macroscopic macromolecular plant matterto microbial biomass causes a ﬂux of diverse plant polymerstowards small-size microbial polymers of lower diversity.Macromolecular plant matter often comprises homopolymers(e.g., starch, cellulose) as well as heteropolymers (e.g., lignin,lignocelluloses, proteins) with very high molecular weights and asize range of µm to cm ( Bresinski et al., 2008 ). Through microbialdegradation, this material is converted to microbialheteropolymers (proteins, peptidoglycan and chitines) withcomparatively low molecular weights and a much smaller size(10–100 fold). The conversion of plant polymers to microbialpolymers results in the “entombing effect ”(Liang et al., 2017 )b yincreasing small-scale heterogeneity, and is presumably alsoaccompanied by an increase in entropy ( von Stockar, 2010 ).Soil C stabilization by molecular complexity was recentlyconceptualized as a driving factor for the persistent behaviorof generally easily degradable organic molecules ( Lehmann et al.,2020 ), which causes the spatial separation and temporalvariability of SOM. The general conversion from plant littertowards microbial OM increases small-scale molecularcomplexity and ﬁnally decreases the likelihood of the co-location of a substrate molecule next to the decomposerorganisms, and thus the turnover rates, resulting in higherturnover times.Experiments on the turnover of common farmyard manure inartiﬁcial soils with various mineral composition revealedrelatively similar CO2emissions in all samples ( Pronk et al.,2013 ). However, the highly different compositions of thedeveloped microbial communities ( Babin et al., 2013 )indicated that microbial activity and utilization of complexsubstrates are adapted to reach the optimal CUE and are notprimarily related to microbial community compositions.Although minerals and substrates strongly affect thecomposition of microbial communities, they obviously do nothave a pronounced effect on microbial activity and overallbiomass formation. The stabilization of the biomass andnecromass formed, however, depends on the mineralogy andthe redox dynamics of the soil. Minerals, in particular clayminerals, were shown to be the most correlating factors ofnecromass and SOM storage in various forest soils ( Angstet al., 2018 ;Angst et al., 2021 ;Kleber et al., 2021 ).The stabilization of non-living13C-labelled microbialbiomass by the soil matrix was tested in soils of twocontrasting forest ecosystems (temperate forest inCalifornia; tropical forest in Puerto Rico ( Throckmortonet al., 2015 )). That particular study traced microbialbiomass from fungi, actinobacteria, as well as Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria into soil densityfractions. As expected, for both ecosystems the highestamount of soil C was found in the heaviest mineral-associated fraction. After prolonged incubation, thehighest percentage of the mi crobial necromass-derived13Cwas recovered in the mineral-associated fraction, irrespectiveof the type of microbial cell material. Mineral associations arethus more important for stabil izing microbial necromass insoil than the cellular origin. However, the exact fate of thenecromass was under the strong control of site-speci ﬁcedaphic factors. Fungal hyphae appear to have a relativelyfast turnover, with a reported life span of only 7 –10 days(Godbold et al., 2006 ). This would imply higher turnovertimes for fungal necromass compared to bacterial necromass,and a potential shift in the fungal/bacterial ratio when goingfrom biomass to necromass ( Liang et al., 2019 ). Other resultsshowed a lower mineralization of ectomycorrhizal fungi(Schweigert et al., 2015 ).Interactions with MineralsMicrobial necromass is stabilized like all other types of organicmatter mostly by aggregation and bonding to the mineral matrixof the soil ( Cotrufo et al., 2013 ;Angst et al., 2018 ;Angst et al.,2021 ;Kleber et al., 2021 ). It is generally considered that SOM isdominantly stabilized at the mineral phase as organo-mineralassociated organic matter (MOM) ( Kleber et al., 2015 ;Angstet al., 2018 ;Gao et al., 2019 ;Haddix et al., 2020 ;Angst et al., 2021 ;Gerrit et al., 2021 ). However, mineral association comprises amultitude of interactions dominantly considered as molecularinteraction ( Kleber et al., 2021 ). As microbes frequently liveFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 10Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsattached to particle surfaces, microbial necromass already is indirect contact to minerals when it is formed. In addition, due tothe small size, microbial necromass can be associated with small-scale minerals, resulting in a considerable stabilization; however,these associations can also be metabolized by living microbes(Omoike and Chorover, 2006 ;Mikutta et al., 2007 ;Mikutta et al.,2011 ;Throckmorton et al., 2015 ;Gao et al., 2019 ;Kleber et al.,2021 ).The mineral phase controls the long-term (up to millennia) Cstorage ( Mikutta et al., 2007 ;Mikutta et al., 2009 ;Doetterl et al.,2015 ) as well as N storage in soil ( Jilling et al., 2018 ).Biogeochemistry studies of MOM across long-termmineralogical soil gradients and chronosequences on theHawaiian Islands ( Mikutta et al., 2009 ) showed that SOMcontents increased signi ﬁcantly with increasing surface area ofpoorly crystalline Fe and Al minerals. This correlation got lost,however, when formation of secondary minerals commenced. Asigniﬁcant impact of the plant cover of topsoils was detected,whereas mineral composition was more important in deeperlayers. Studies in a glacier fore ﬁeld chronosequence along a120 ky ecosystem gradient ( Mikutta et al., 2019 ) con ﬁrmedthat MOM was formed through association with minerals ofboth microbial necromass and modi ﬁed plant-derivedcompounds. Litter quality was less important for thedevelopment of MOM, and plant-derived C that had not beenmicrobially processed was present in all soil depths.The association with and occlusion in minerals and aggregateswas considered to be the most important stabilization mechanismfor microbial necromass in soil ( Guggenberger et al., 1999 ) and Feand Al oxides play a dominant role in these stabilization processes(Eusterhues et al., 2003 ;von Lützow et al., 2006 ;Schneider et al.,2010 ). Association of SOM to minerals is typically considered asinteraction of separate molecules with mineral surfaces ( Kleberet al., 2021 ) but often such materials are aggregations ofbiomolecules or cell envelope fragments of colloidal size in thenm range, which is not yet in the scienti ﬁc focus. The associationof microbial necromass with amorphous minerals or freshlyprecipitated metal oxides in soils has been demonstrated usingvarious methods, suggesting important relations to the redoxcycles of Fe ( Ludwig et al., 2015 ;Kunhi Mouvenchery et al., 2016 ;Woche et al., 2017 ). The biogenic oxidation of reduced Fe,accompanied by precipitation, may result in incrustation ofthe cells and necromass materials, thus leading to strongpreservation of cell organic matter on timescales up to100,000 years under extreme conditions ( Posth et al., 2014 )a slong as the Fe oxides are not reduced again. Microbially enhancedincrustation of SOM by Fe, Al, Mn, or Si oxides additionally slowsdown degradation ( Kappler et al., 2005 ;Posth et al., 2014 ). Apartfrom sorption, the speci ﬁc molecular architecture of thenecromass fragments, as well as the self-aggregation of thismaterial and the embedding in EPS of bio ﬁlm materials,contribute to physical separation of the materials, makingthem inaccessible for degrading enzymes. In addition tocomplexation with other organic compounds, microbialcomponents and necromass are protected through occlusionwithin aggregates, creating physical barriers against enzymaticattack ( Balesdent et al., 2000 ;Christensen, 2001 ;Rasmussen et al.,2005 ;Plaza et al., 2013 ). In addition, bacteria and necromass werefound to be predominantly associated with clay particles formingclay “hutches ”as a kind of shelter ( Lünsdorf et al., 2000 ;Plazaet al., 2013 ).Even if sorbed to minerals, microbial necromass is notprotected from recycling by other microbes ( Creamer et al.,2019 ), which is an important pathway for microbial resourcemining. The authors identi ﬁed two mechanisms of OMenrichment on two different minerals (feldspar and Al(OH)3):the molecular enrichment of non-living OM and the enrichmentof living or dead cells on surfaces. They also proved that microbialnecromass is strongly sorbed to Al(OH)3, making it poorlybioavailable. Feldspar in contrast has a lower accumulationpotential for organic compounds in general. However,necromass retention on Al(OH)3was decreased in thepresence of living bacteria compared to the control. Thisindicates that living cells attached to the minerals can recyclemineral-sorbed necromass C. Therefore, both mechanisms,stabilization by mineral-sorption as well as destabilization bymobilization, have to be considered. Mobilization of sorbedmaterials was particularly found for mineral-associatedN-containing compounds ( Turner et al., 2017 ;Creamer et al.,2019 ;Enggrob et al., 2020 ), supporting the microbial resourcemining hypothesis.Redox cycling strongly controls both C and P storage, e.g. inthe rhizosphere of paddy soils ( Huang et al., 2018 ;Wei et al., 2020 ;Kleber et al., 2021 ). The majority of stored P and C is associatedwith freshly deposited ferrihydrite, often formed by Fe-oxidizingbacteria in oxic microhabitats ( Kappler et al., 2005 ;Posth et al.,2014 ). The current state of knowledge is that Fe-metabolizingbacteria are intimately linked to the Fe cycle in all environmentsand provide the key preservation of OM in soils and sediments(Posth et al., 2014 ). In addition, physical protection in concretionsand aggregates is also correlated to changes in the moistureregime ( Cates et al., 2019 ). Conversely, the release of C and Pdepends on Fe-reducing bacteria utilizing electron donors fromroot exudates as C and the energy source in anoxic habitats(Kappler et al., 2005 ;Achtenhagen, 2015 ). The dynamics of bothprocesses depend on drying and rewetting cycles; there is also astrong link to N cycling. Excess of ammonium in the rhizospherewas shown to result in signi ﬁcant Fe-reduction-related ammoniaoxidation (Feammox) accompanied by the release of soluble Fe2+(Li et al., 2019a ).After exposure to redox ﬂuctuations mimicking wet riceproduction with and without addition of rice straw, SOM andmicrobial community structures have been traced in soils withdifferent mineralogy ( Winkler et al., 2019 ). In comparison tocontinuously oxic conditions, lower overall mineralization wasshown for the samples from redox cycling with a tendency tostore more C from straw addition. Under cycling, more straw-derived C was allocated to C-retaining MOM, irrespective of thesoil type ( Winkler et al., 2019 ). Dissolution and precipitation ofFe oxides is essential for MOM formation and thus SOMprotection, as more MOM was retained in soil with higheramounts of redox reactive minerals and cycling. This,however, requires a suf ﬁcient input of fresh OM as electrondonor and C-source in order to induce suf ﬁcient microbialFrontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 11Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsactivity to induce Fe oxide dissolution ( Posth et al., 2014 ). Similareffects of dissolution of amorphous Al(OH) 3with subsequent co-precipitation with OM due to shifts in pH can also protect OMfrom decomposition ( Mikutta et al., 2011 ), although the role ofmicrobial activities for this process are not clear yet. Overall,mineralogy had no or only little effect on the turnover of straw-derived C. However, the capacity of the redox-active minerals isresponsible for whether newly formed MOM replaces olderMOM or is retained in addition to older MOM sorbed by theminerals ( Winkler et al., 2019 ). We can hypothesize that theseprocesses will apply in a similar way to necromass.Redox cycling and the related dissolution and precipitation ofFe oxides are thus important key factors for SOM, in particularfor necromass stabilization with continuous seasonal or annualcycling. In the wet period of wet-dry cycles, the redox potential ofsoil can drop dramatically, with SOM released from Fe oxidesupon microbial reductive dissolution. With recurring oxidativeconditions, fresh Fe oxides are formed that have low crystallinityand small particle sizes in the nm range. Furthermore, they coverexisting surfaces, and thus offer large surface areas for sorption,protecting SOM and causing encrustation of larger biomaterials.Co-precipitation of oxidized Fe with necromass fragments (cellenvelopes) was shown to result in strong stabilization throughspatial protection ( Achtenhagen, 2015 ). Such dynamics provide aclose link between SOM stabilization and release of C, P andorganic N, including microbial biomass building blocks.CONCLUSION AND RESEARCH NEEDSOverall, we can conclude that the processes of the microbialgrowth and decay cycle combined with the matrix stabilizationare the mechanistic principles of the MCP concept ( Liang et al.,2017 ). It is based on the following interwoven factors: microbialgrowth and decay cycle, post mortem modi ﬁcations of thebiomolecules combined with matrix and mineral associatedstabilization of these compounds as well as increasingmolecular complexity ( Figure 4 ). They are consistent with theobserved similarity in the chemical composition of SOM invarious soil ecosystems.There appears to be a discrepancy between the low amounts ofliving biomass and the relatively high amounts of residues of deadcells, showing not only a high formation and turnover ofmicrobial biomass but also effective and preferentialstabilization of microbial residues. The CUE concept relates Cturnover to microbial growth and provides much deeper insightinto the relevant processes of C dynamics when consideringbiomass and the resulting necromass formation as substrateand nutrient resource in soil. Combined mass turnover andenergy balances enable evaluation of the amount of energyderived from C sources degradation as well as the amount ofenergy retained in soil microbial biomass ( Barros and Feijóo,2003 ;Barros, 2021 ). Energy is needed for microbial biomass andnecromass formation, but it is also stored in the soil by necromassretention. A comparison of the total Gibbs energy released froman oxidation reaction with the potential energy available formicrobial growth provides an estimate of the actual energyretention within microbial biomass in a soil in relation to therelease as heat, and may provide a sound basis for further researchapproaches for improving SOM contents.A missing contact to water, the complexity of biomoleculeaggregations and cell envelope fragments, the increased small-scale molecular complexity of SOM after turnover of plantmaterials ( Lehmann et al., 2020 ) as well as post-mortemmodi ﬁcations of microbial biomass, including mineralincrustation of biomaterials, can explain not only thediscrepancy between the amounts of necromass and livingbiomass in soil but also why the highly contributive necromassmay have been overlooked for decades. In addition, researchersshould take into account that organo-mineral associations areoften not only single-molecule interactions, but also interactionsof biomolecule aggregations, which additionally interact withthemselves. Therefore, future research should focus onassessing the impacts of each of these processes to the storageand stabilization of necromass C in SOM. Moreover, it shouldalways be kept in mind that C turnover in soil is a matter not onlyFIGURE 4 | Intriguing conceptual models need to be ﬁlled with real process understanding: the microbial growth and decay cycle (macro-polymer conversion tomicro-polymers) combined with matrix stabilization of necromass are the driving forces of the microbial C pump (MCP).Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 12Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implicationsof C stocks but also of ﬂuxes ( Janzen, 2015 ;Waring et al., 2020 ),which link aboveground to belowground ecosystems by organic-matter-based energy ﬂuxes through soils from plants viamicrobes and their necromass to CO2.The following questions still remain unanswered: whatpredominantly determines SOM and necromass stabilizationprocesses in soils: the matter and energy ﬂuxes, the watercontents, the microbial communities with their biochemicaltraits, the mineral matrix, or their redox dynamics combinedwith the microbial growth and decay cycles includingmolecular complexity? The energy and matter ﬂuxes feedingmicrobial communities in soils are currently the research focusof a joint research initiative launched by the German ResearchFoundation (DFG; SPP2322, https://www.www.SoilSystems.uni-trier.de).Understanding and, in particular, controlling these processeswill be imperative for a sustainable knowledge-basedmanagement of SOM. Necromass stabilization can explainwhy SOM content is higher in arable soils fertilized withorganic material compared to mineral fertilizers. The additionof farmyard manure obviously helps to increase active and fertileSOM because manure is comprised of almost pure necromassfrom the cattle gut digestion processes ( Chen et al., 2020 ;Liuet al., 2020 ). Necromass-based SOM formation also explains whyperennial plants, in particular grasses with their dense rootsystems, improve microbial necromass and SOM contents byfeeding microbes with their exudates ( Fester et al., 2014 ). Theconversion of grasslands and forests to arable land will releasepart of the stored C by mineralization ( Guo and Gifford, 2002 ).Conversely, more plants and biodiversity are needed in order toproduce more microbial biomass and ultimately SOM in soils(van der Heijden et al., 2008 ).Therefore, the management of SOM in soil ecosystemsand arable land equates to the management of energy, Cand N ﬂuxes. Maintaining biodiver sity, fertility and manysoil functions will depend on active microorganisms, andthus on the decomposition of SOM and the energy usederived from this turnover. The management of C andenergy ﬂuxes should therefore become a strategy asopposed to simply increasing C stocks, and themanagement of agroecosyste ms should thus also focuson optimizing CUE with the aim of increasing SOMcontent in soils ( Kallenbach et al., 2019 ).The addition of clay minerals e.g. to sandy soils willcontribute to higher C sequestration ( Churchman et al.,2020 ). As was found for wet rice cropping, redox cyclingmay be included in a clever strategy increasing the turnoverof the microbial growth and decay cycle, and the addition ofclay minerals may boost storage capacities in the soil(Kalbitz et al., 2013 ). Such treatment and supplementationconcepts may be applied in order to increase SOM contentsin general and to mitigate excess CO2in the atmosphere.Research on channeling of C and energy through plantresidues and the microbial growth and decay cycle asdominating driver provides the unique opportunity togain a biota-controlled mec hanistic understanding ofSOM formation and turnover.A great deal of research has investigated microbial activityand community structures, with very little research focusingon microbial necromass stabilization and its implications. Theextension of an established model (MIMICS-CN) considersnot only litter quality but also more detailed microbialprocesses of N mobilization from necromass and SOM,including the spilling of excess C or N ( Kyker-Snowmanet al., 2020 ). It shows prognostic value but is still not ableto represent the dynamics of CUE and NUE based on climatefactors, e.g., temperature and moisture, which are thecontrolling determinants of microbial activity and growth.The inclusion of microbial interactions in SOM models canexplain persistence as a feedback of substrate availability,mineral protection, and microbial population size ( Woolfand Lehmann, 2019 )a n dw a sa b l et or e p r o d u c et h eCdynamics of 22 long-term agric ultural experiments withoutthe need for assuming an inherently stable C pool in SOM.However, the high amounts of necromass in SOM are currentlynot really considered as a resource of substrates and buildingblocks, although recent model developments ( Manzoni et al.,2021 ) do at least consider recycling of C and N within themicrobial food web.For a thorough understanding and predictive modelling ofSOM formation and turnover processes, the energy ﬂuxes andthe microbial growth and decay cycle need to be applied inmodelling soil C storage processes. Models re ﬂecting themicrobial growth, decay, and necromass contribution toSOM as well as redox cycling may show promise forimproving our knowledge and ability to predict effects ofglobal changes on SOM in soils and may ﬁnally enable usto assess the determinants of the C storage capacities ofdifferent soils.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSMK: corresponding author, writing and conceptualisation of themanuscript AM: writing and conceptualization of the manuscriptSTB: writing of the manuscript CL: writing of the manuscript.FUNDINGWe acknowledge ﬁnancial support from the Helmholtz-Centrefor Environmental Research UFZ, from the University of Trier,the German Research Foundation (SPP2322), and the NationalNatural Science Foundation of China (No. 31930070) as well asthe Humboldt Fellowship to CL by the Alexander von HumboldtFoundation of Germany.Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 13Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsREFERENCESAchtenhagen, J. (2015). Dynamic (Redox) Interfaces in Soil - Carbon Turnover ofMicrobial Residues and Their Impact on Soil Properties. PhD. Thesis . Munich:Technical University of Munich.Allison, S. D. (2005). Cheaters, Diffusion and Nutrients Constrain Decompositionby Microbial Enzymes in Spatially Structured Environments. Ecol. Lett. 8,626 –635. doi:10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00756.xAmelung, W. (2001). “Methods Using Amino Sugars as Markers for MicrobialResidues in Soil, ”inAssessment Methods for Soil Carbon . Editors R. Lal,J. M. Kimble, R. F. Follett, and B. A. Stewart (Boca Raton, FL: CRC/LewisPublishers), 233 –270.Angst, G., Messinger, J., Greiner, M., Häusler, W., Hertel, D., Kirfel, K., et al.(2018). Soil Organic Carbon Stocks in Topsoil and Subsoil Controlled by ParentMaterial, Carbon Input in the Rhizosphere, and Microbial-DerivedCompounds. Soil Biol. Biochem. 122, 19 –30. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.03.026Angst, G., Mueller, K. E., Nierop, K. G. J., and Simpson, M. J. (2021). Plant- orMicrobial-Derived? A Review on the Molecular Composition of Stabilized SoilOrganic Matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 156, 108189. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2021.108189Anthony, M. A., Crowther, T. W., Maynard, D. S., van den Hoogen, J., and Averill,C. (2020). Distinct Assembly Processes and Microbial Communities ConstrainSoil Organic Carbon Formation. One Earth 2, 349 –360. doi:10.1016/j.oneear.2020.03.006Apostel, C., Herschbach, J., Bore, E. K., Spielvogel, S., Kuzyakov, Y., and Dippold,M. A. (2018). Food for Microorganisms: Position-speci ﬁc 13 C Labeling and13 C-PLFA Analysis Reveals Preferences for Sorbed or Necromass C. Geoderma312, 86 –94. doi:10.1016/j.geoderma.2017.09.042Appuhn, A., and Joergensen, R. (2006). Microbial Colonisation of Roots as aFunction of Plant Species. Soil Biol. Biochem. 38 (5), 1040 –1051. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2005.09.002Babin, D., Ding, G.-C., Pronk, G. J., Heister, K., Kögel-Knabner, I., and Smalla, K.(2013). Metal Oxides, clay Minerals and Charcoal Determine the Compositionof Microbial Communities in Matured Arti ﬁcial Soils and Their Response toPhenanthrene. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 86, 3 –14. doi:10.1111/1574-6941.12058Balesdent, J., Chenu, C., and Balabane, M. (2000). Relationship of Soil OrganicMatter Dynamics to Physical protection and Tillage. Soil Tillage Res. 53,215 –230. doi:10.1016/s0167-1987(99)00107-5Barré, P., Quénéa, K., Vidal, A., Cécillon, L., Christensen, B. T., Kätterer, T., et al.(2018). Microbial and Plant-Derived Compounds Both Contribute to PersistentSoil Organic Carbon in Temperate Soils. Biogeochemistry 140, 81 –92.doi:10.1007/s10533-018-0475-5Barros, N., and Feijóo, S. (2003). A Combined Mass and Energy Balance to ProvideBioindicators of Soil Microbiological Quality. Biophysical Chem. 104 (3),561 –572. doi:10.1016/S0301-4622(03)00059-0B a r r o s ,N . ,H a n s e n ,L .D . ,P i ñ e i r o ,V . ,P é r e z - C r u z a d o ,C . ,V i l l a n u e v a ,M . ,P r o u p í n ,J . ,et al. (2016). Factors In ﬂuencing the Calorespirometric Ratios of Soil MicrobialMetabolism. Soil Biol. Biochem. 92, 221 –229. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.10.007Barros, N., Salgado, J., and Feijóo, S. (2007). Calorimetry and Soil. Thermochim.Acta 458, 11 –17. doi:10.1016/j.tca.2007.01.010Barros, N. (2021). Thermodynamics of Soil Microbial Metabolism: Applicationsand Functions. Appl. Sci. 11, 4962. doi:10.3390/app11114962Basile-Doelsch, I., Balesdent, J., and Pellerin, S. (2020). Reviews and Syntheses: TheMechanisms Underlying Carbon Storage in Soil. Biogeosciences 17, 5223 –5242.doi:10.5194/bg-2020-4910.5194/bg-17-5223-2020Baveye, P. C., Baveye, J., and Gowdy, J. (2016). Soil “Ecosystem ”Services andNatural Capital: Critical Appraisal of Research on Uncertain Ground. Front.Environ. Sci. 4, 41. doi:10.3389/fenvs.2016.00041Biselli, E., Schink, S. J., and Gerland, U. (2020). Slower Growth of Escherichia coliLeads to Longer Survival in Carbon Starvation Due to a Decrease in theMaintenance Rate. Mol. Syst. Biol. 16, e9478. doi:10.15252/msb.20209478Bohlen, P. J., Pelletier, D. M., Groffman, P. M., Fahey, T. J., and Fisk, M. C. (2004).Inﬂuence of Earthworm Invasion on Redistribution and Retention of SoilCarbon and Nitrogen in Northern Temperate Forests. Ecosystems 7, 13 –27.doi:10.1007/s10021-003-0127-yBollag, J. M., and Liu, S. Y. (1990). “Biological Transformation Processes ofPesticides, ”inPesticides in the Soil Environment: Processes, Impacts andModeling . Editor H. H. Cheng (Madison, WI, USA: Soil Science Society ofAmerica), 169 –211.Bore, E. K., Kuzyakov, Y., and Dippold, M. A. (2019). Glucose and RiboseStabilization in Soil: Convergence and Divergence of Carbon PathwaysAssessed by Position-speci ﬁc Labeling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 131, 54 –61.doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.12.027Bosatta, E., and Ågren, G. I. (1999). Soil Organic Matter Quality InterpretedThermodynamically. Soil Biol. Biochem. 31, 1889 –1891. doi:10.1016/s0038-0717(99)00105-4Boye, K., Herrmann, A. M., Schaefer, M. V., Tfaily, M. M., and Fendorf, S. (2018).Discerning Microbially Mediated Processes during Redox Transitions inFlooded Soils Using Carbon and Energy Balances. Front. Environ. Sci. 6,e15. doi:10.3389/fenvs.2018.00015Bresinski, A., Körner, C., Kadereit, J. W., Neuhaus, G., and Sonnewald, U. (2008).Strasburger - Lehrbuch der Botanik . Springer Spektrum.Bridgewater, L. (2012). Standard Methods for the Examination of Water andWastewater . Washington, DC: American Public Health Association.Brock, A. L., Kästner, M., and Trapp, S. (2017). Microbial Growth Yield Estimatesfrom Thermodynamics and its Importance for Degradation of Pesticides andFormation of Biogenic Non-extractable Residues. SAR QSAR Environ. Res. 28(8), 629 –650. doi:10.1080/1062936X.2017.1365762Brock, A. L., Rein, A., Polesel, F., Nowak, K. M., Kästner, M., and Trapp, S. (2019).Microbial Turnover of Glyphosate to Biomass: Utilization as Nutrient Sourceand Formation of AMPA and Biogenic NER in an OECD 308 Test. Environ. Sci.Technol. 53, 5838 –5847. doi:10.1021/acs.est.9b01259Buckeridge, K. M., La Rosa, A. F., Mason, K. E., Whitaker, J., McNamara, N. P.,Grant, H. K., et al. (2020). Sticky Dead Microbes: Rapid Abiotic Retention ofMicrobial Necromass in Soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 149, 107929 –107933.doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107929Capek, P., Choma, M., Tahovská, K., Ka ňa, J., Kopáček, J., and Šantrůčková, H.(2021). Coupling the Resource Stoichiometry and Microbial Biomass Turnoverto Predict Nutrient Mineralization and Immobilization in Soil. Geoderma 385,114884. doi:10.1016/j.geoderma.2020.114884Cates, A. M., Braus, M. J., Whitman, T. L., and Jackson, R. D. (2019). SeparateDrivers for Microbial Carbon Mineralization and Physical protection ofCarbon. Soil Biol. Biochem. 133, 72 –82. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.02.014Chakrawal, A., Herrmann, A. M., Šantrůčková, H., and Manzoni, S. (2020).Quantifying Microbial Metabolism in Soils Using Calorespirometry - ABioenergetics Perspective. Soil Biol. Biochem. 148, 107945 –107966.doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107945Chen, X., Xi, Y., Rui, Y., Ning, Z., Hu, Y., Tang, H., et al. (2020). Microbial CarbonUse Ef ﬁciency, Biomass Turnover, and Necromass Accumulation in Paddy SoilDepending on Fertilization. Agri. Eco. Environ. 292, 106816. doi:10.1016/j.agee.2020.106816Christensen, B. T. (2001). Physical Fractionation of Soil and Structural andFunctional Complexity in Organic Matter Turnover. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 52,345 –353. doi:10.1046/j.1365-2389.2001.00417.xChristensen, D. R., and McCarthy, P. L. (1975). Multi-Process BiologicalTreatment Model. J. Water Pollut. Control. Fed. 47, 2652 –2664.Churchman, G. J., Singh, M., Schapel, A., Sarkar, B., and Bolan, N. (2020). ClayMinerals as the Key to the Sequestration of Carbon in Soils. Clays Clay Miner.68, 135 –143. doi:10.1007/s42860-020-00071-zCotrufo, M. F., Wallenstein, M. D., Boot, C. M., Denef, K., and Paul, E. (2013). TheMicrobial Ef ﬁciency-Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) Framework Integrates PlantLitter Decomposition with Soil Organic Matter Stabilization: Do Labile PlantInputs Form Stable Soil Organic Matter?. Glob. Change Biol. 19 (4), 988 –995.doi:10.1111/gcb.12113Craig, M. E., Turner, B. L., Liang, C., Clay, K., Johnson, D. J., and Phillips, R. P.(2018). Tree Mycorrhizal Type Predicts Within-site Variability in the Storageand Distribution of Soil Organic Matter. Glob. Change Biol. 24, 3317 –3330.doi:10.1111/gcb.14132Craine, J. M., Morrow, C., and Fierer, N. (2007). Microbial NitrogenLimitation Increases Decomposition. Ecology 88, 2105 –2113.doi:10.1890/06-1847.1Creamer, C. A., Foster, A. L., Lawrence, C., McFarland, J., Schulz, M., and Waldrop,M. P. (2019). Mineralogy Dictates the Initial Mechanism of MicrobialNecromass Association. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 260, 161 –176.doi:10.1016/j.gca.2019.06.028Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 14Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsCurrie, W. S. (2003). Relationships between Carbon Turnover and BioavailableEnergy Fluxes in Two Temperate forest Soils. Glob. Change Biol. 9 (6), 919 –929.doi:10.1046/j.1365-2486.2003.00637.xCyle, K. T., Klein, A. R., Aristilde, L., and Martínez, C. E. (2020). EcophysiologicalStudy of Paraburkholderia Sp. Strain 1N under Soil Solution Conditions:Dynamic Substrate Preferences and Characterization of Carbon UseEfﬁciency. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 86, e01851. doi:10.1128/AEM.01851-20del Giorgio, P. A., and Cole, J. J. (1998). Bacterial Growth Ef ﬁciency in NaturalAquatic Systems. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 29, 503 –541. doi:10.1146/annurev.ecolsys.29.1.503Di Lonardo, D. P., De Boer, W., Klein Gunnewiek, P. J. A., Hannula, S. E., and Vander Wal, A. (2017). Priming of Soil Organic Matter: Chemical Structure ofAdded Compounds Is More Important Than the Energy Content. Soil Biol.Biochem. 108, 41 –54. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.01.017Doetterl, S., Stevens, A., Six, J., Merckx, R., Van Oost, K., Casanova Pinto, M., et al.(2015). Soil Carbon Storage Controlled by Interactions between Geochemistryand Climate. Nat. Geosci 8 (10), 780 –783. doi:10.1038/ngeo2516Dong, W., Song, A., Yin, H., Liu, X., Li, J., and Fan, F. (2021). Decomposition ofMicrobial Necromass Is Divergent at the Individual Taxonomic Level in Soil.Front. Microbiol. 12,679793. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2021.679793Ekschmitt, K., Kandeler, E., Poll, C., Brune, A., Buscot, F., Friedrich, M., et al.(2008). Soil-carbon Preservation through Habitat Constraints and BiologicalLimitations on Decomposer Activity. J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 171, 27 –35.doi:10.1002/jpln.200700051Enggrob, K. L., Larsen, T., Peixoto, L., and Rasmussen, J. (2020). Gram-positiveBacteria Control the Rapid Anabolism of Protein-Sized Soil Organic NitrogenCompounds Questioning the Present Paradigm. Sci. Rep. 10, 15840.doi:10.1038/s41598-020-72696-yEusterhues, K., Rumpel, C., Kleber, M., and Kögel-Knabner, I. (2003). Stabilisationof Soil Organic Matter by Interactions with Minerals as Revealed by mineralDissolution and Oxidative Degradation. Org. Geochem. 34, 1591 –1600.doi:10.1016/j.orggeochem.2003.08.007Fan, Z., and Liang, C. (2015). Signi ﬁcance of Microbial Asynchronous Anabolismto Soil Carbon Dynamics Driven by Litter Inputs. Sci. Rep. 5, 9575. doi:10.1038/srep09575Feng, Y., and Boyd, S. A. (2008). “Bioavailability of Soil-Sorbed Pesticides andOrganic Contaminants, ”inSoil Mineral Microbe-Organic Interactions: Theoriesand Applications. . Editors P. M. H. Qiaoyun Huang and A Violante (Springer),259 –279.Fester, T., Giebler, J., Wick, L. Y., Schlosser, D., and Kästner, M. (2014). Plant-microbe Interactions as Drivers of Ecosystem Functions Relevant for theBiodegradation of Organic Contaminants. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 27,168 –175. doi:10.1016/j.copbio.2014.01.017Fierer, N. (2017). Embracing the Unknown: D isentangling the Complexities of the SoilMicrobiome. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 15 (10), 579 –590. doi:10.1038/nrmicro.2017.87Galicia-Andres, E., Escalona, Y., Oostenbrink, C., Tunega, D., and Gerzabek, M. H.(2021). Soil Organic Matter Stabilization at Molecular Scale: The Role of MetalCations and Hydrogen Bonds. Geoderma 401, 12. doi:10.1016/j.geoderma.2021.115237Gao, J., Mikutta, R., Jansen, B., Guggenberger, G., Vogel, C., and Kalbitz, K. (2019).The Multilayer Model of Soil mineral-organic Interfaces-A Review. J. PlantNutr. Soil Sci. 183, 27 –41. doi:10.1002/jpln.201900530Gavrilescu, M. (2005). Fate of Pesticides in the Environment and itsBioremediation. Eng. Life Sci. 5 (6), 497 –526. doi:10.1002/elsc.200520098Gerrit, A., Mueller, K. E., Nierop, K. G. J., and Simpson, M. J. (2021). Plant- orMicrobial-Derived? A Review on the Molecular Composition of Stabilized SoilOrganic Matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 156, 108189 –108201. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2021.108189Gessner, M. O., Swan, C. M., Dang, C. K., McKie, B. G., Bardgett, R. D., Wall, D. H.,et al. (2010). Diversity Meets Decomposition. Trends Ecol. Evol. 25, 372 –380.doi:10.1016/j.tree.2010.01.010Geyer, K. M., Dijkstra, P., Sinsabaugh, R., and Frey, S. D. (2019). Clarifying theInterpretation of Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency in Soil through Methods Comparison.Soil Biol. Biochem. 128, 79 –88. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.09.036Geyer, K. M., ,, K., Grandy, A. S., Frey, S. D., and Frey, S. D. (2016). MicrobialCarbon Use Ef ﬁciency: Accounting for Population, Community, andEcosystem-Scale Controls over the Fate of Metabolized Organic Matter.Biogeochemistry 127, 173 –188. doi:10.1007/s10533-016-0191-yGodbold, D. L., Hoosbeek, M. R., Lukac, M., Cotrufo, M. F., Janssens, I. A.,Ceulemans, R., et al. (2006). Mycorrhizal Hyphal Turnover as a DominantProcess for Carbon Input into Soil Organic Matter. Plant Soil 281, 15 –24.doi:10.1007/s11104-005-3701-6Guggenberger, G., Frey, S. D., Six, J., Paustian, K., and Elliott, E. T. (1999). Bacterialand Fungal Cell-Wall Residues in Conventional and No-TillageAgroecosystems. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 63 (5), 1188 –1198. doi:10.2136/sssaj1999.6351188xGuo, L. B., and Gifford, R. M. (2002). Soil Carbon Stocks and Land Use Change: aMeta Analysis. Glob. Change Biol. 8, 345 –360. doi:10.1046/j.1354-1013.2002.00486.xHaddix, M. L., Gregorich, E. G., Helgason, B. L., Janzen, H., Ellert, B. H., andFrancesca Cotrufo, M. (2020). Climate, Carbon Content, and Soil TextureControl the Independent Formation and Persistence of Particulate and mineral-associated Organic Matter in Soil. Geoderma 363, 114160. doi:10.1016/j.geoderma.2019.114160H a r r i s ,J .A . ,R i t z ,K . ,C o u c h e n e y ,E . ,G r i c e ,S .M . ,L e r c h ,T .Z . ,P a w l e t t ,M . ,e ta l .(2012). The Thermodynamic Ef ﬁciency of Soil Microbial CommunitiesSubject to Long-Term Stress Is Lower Than Those under ConventionalInput Regimes. Soil Biol. Biochem. 47, 149 –157. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2011.12.017Herrmann, A. M., Coucheney, E., and Nunan, N. (2014). IsothermalMicrocalorimetry Provides New Insight into Terrestrial Carbon Cycling.Environ. Sci. Technol. 48 (8), 4344 –4352. doi:10.1021/es403941hHuang, X., Tang, H., Kang, W., Yu, G., Ran, W., Hong, J., et al. (2018). RedoxInterface-Associated Organo-mineral Interactions: A Mechanism for CSequestration under a rice-wheat Cropping System. Soil Biol. Biochem. 120,12–23. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.01.031Janzen, H. H. (2015). Beyond Carbon Sequestration: Soil as Conduit of SolarEnergy. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 66 (1), 19 –32. doi:10.1111/ejss.12194Jiao, N., Herndl, G. J., Hansell, D. A., Benner, R., Kattner, G., Wilhelm, S. W., et al.(2010). Microbial Production of Recalcitrant Dissolved Organic Matter: Long-Term Carbon Storage in the Global Ocean. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 8, 593 –599.doi:10.1038/nrmicro2386Jilling, A., Keiluweit, M., Contosta, A. R., Frey, S., Schimel, J., Schnecker, J., et al.(2018). Minerals in the Rhizosphere: Overlooked Mediators of Soil NitrogenAvailability to Plants and Microbes. Biogeochemistry 139, 103 –122. doi:10.1007/s10533-018-0459-5Jin, Q., and Bethke, C. M. (2007). The Thermodynamics and Kinetics of MicrobialMetabolism. Am. J. Sci. 307, 643 –677. doi:10.2475/04.2007.01Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Dieckmann, U., and Richter, A. (2014). MicrobialCommunity Dynamics Alleviate Stoichiometric Constraints during LitterDecay. Ecol. Lett. 17, 680 –690. doi:10.1111/ele.12269Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Richter, A., and Dieckmann, U. (2015). SocialDynamics within Decomposer Communities lead to Nitrogen Retentionand Organic Matter Build-Up in Soils. Nat. Commun. 6, 8960. doi:10.1038/ncomms9960Kalbitz, K., Kaiser, K., Fiedler, S., Kölbl, A., Amelung, W., Bräuer, T., et al. (2013).The Carbon Count of 2000 Years of rice Cultivation. Glob. Change Biol. 19,1107 –1113. doi:10.1111/gcb.12080Kallenbach, C. M., Frey, S. D., and Grandy, A. S. (2016). Direct Evidence forMicrobial-Derived Soil Organic Matter Formation and its EcophysiologicalControls. Nat. Commun. 7, 13630. doi:10.1038/ncomms13630Kallenbach, C. M., Wallenstein, M. D., Schipanksi, M. E., and Grandy, A. S. (2019).Managing Agroecosystems for Soil Microbial Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency: EcologicalUnknowns, Potential Outcomes, and a Path Forward. Front. Microbiol. 10,1146. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2019.01146Kappler, A., Schink, B., and Newma n, D. K. (2005). Fe(III) mineralFormation and Cell Encrustation by the Nitrate-dependent Fe(II)-oxidizer Strain BoFeN1. Geobiology 3 (4), 235 –245. doi:10.1111/j.1472-4669.2006.00056.xKästner, M., and Miltner, A. (2018). “SOM and Microbes-What Is Left fromMicrobial Life, ”inThe Future of Soil Carbon –its Conservation and Formation .Editors C. Garcia, P. Nannipieri, and T. Hernandez (Elsevier Academic Press.),125 –163. doi:10.1016/b978-0-12-811687-6.00005-5Keiluweit, M., Wanzek, T., Kleber, M., Nico, P., and Fendorf, S. (2017). AnaerobicMicrosites Have an Unaccounted Role in Soil Carbon Stabilization. Nat.Commun. 8, 1771. doi:10.1038/s41467-017-01406-6Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 15Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsKindler, R., Miltner, A., Richnow, H., and Kästner, M. (2006). Fate of Gram-Negative Bacterial Biomass in Soil-Mineralization and Contribution to SOM.Soil Biol. Biochem. 38 (9), 2860 –2870. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2006.04.047Kindler, R., Miltner, A., Thullner, M., Richnow, H.-H., and Kästner, M. (2009).Fate of Bacterial Biomass Derived Fatty Acids in Soil and Their Contributionto Soil Organic Matter. Org. Geochem. 40, 29 –37. doi:10.1016/j.orggeochem.2008.09.005Kleber, M., Bourg, I. C., Coward, E. K., Hansel, C. M., Myneni, S. C. B., and Nunan,N. (2021). Dynamic Interactions at the mineral-organic Matter Interface. Nat.Rev. Earth Environ. 2, 402 –421. doi:10.1038/s43017-021-00162-yKleber, M., Eusterhues, K., Keiluweit, M., Mikutta, C., Mikutta, R., and Nico, P. S.(2015). “Mineral-organic Associations: Formation, Properties, and Relevancein Soil Environments, ”inAdvances in Agronomy ,1 –140. doi:10.1016/bs.agron.2014.10.005Kleerebezem, R., and Van Loosdrecht, M. C. M. (2010). A Generalized Method forThermodynamic State Analysis of Environmental Systems. Crit. Rev. Environ.Sci. Techn. 40 (1), 1 –54. doi:10.1080/10643380802000974Knicker, H. (2011). Soil Organic N - an Under-rated Player for C Sequestration inSoils? Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 1118 –1129. doi:10.1016/soilbio.2011.02.020Kögel-Knabner, I. (2002). The Macromolecular Organic Composition of Plant andMicrobial Residues as Inputs to Soil Organic Matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 34,139 –162. doi:10.1016/s0038-0717(01)00158-4Kögel-Knabner, I. (2017). The Macromolecular Organic Composition of Plant andMicrobial Residues as Inputs to Soil Organic Matter: Fourteen Years on. SoilBiol. Biochem. 105, A3 –A8. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.08.011Kovárová-Kovar, K., and Egli, T. (1998). Growth Kinetics of Suspended MicrobialCells: From Single-Substrate-Controlled Growth to Mixed-Substrate Kinetics.Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 62, 646 –666. doi:10.1128/MMBR.62.3.646-666.1998Kuzyakov, Y., and Mason-Jones, K. (2018). Viruses in Soil: Nano-Scale UndeadDrivers of Microbial Life, Biogeochemical Turnover and Ecosystem Functions.Soil Biol. Biochem. 127, 305 –317. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.09.032Kuzyakov, Y. (2010). Priming Effects: Interactions between Living and DeadOrganic Matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 42, 1363 –1371. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.04.003Kyker-Snowman, E., Wieder, W. R., Frey, S. D., and Grandy, A. S. (2020).Stoichiometrically Coupled Carbon and Nitrogen Cycling in the MIcrobial-MIneral Carbon Stabilization Model Version 1.0 (MIMICS-CN v1.0). Geosci.Model. Dev. 13, 4413 –4434. doi:10.5194/gmd-13-4413-2020LaRowe, D. E., and van Cappellen, P. (2011). Degradation of Natural OrganicMatter: A Thermodynamic Analysis. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 75,2030 –2042. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2011.01.020Lehmann, J., Hansel, C. M., Kaiser, C., Kleber, M., Maher, K., Manzoni, S., et al.(2020). Persistence of Soil Organic Carbon Caused by Functional Complexity.Nat. Geosci. 13, 529 –534. doi:10.1038/s41561-020-0612-3Lehmann, J., and Kleber, M. (2015a). The Contentious Nature of Soil OrganicMatter. Nature 528 (7580), 60 –68. doi:10.1038/nature16069Lehmann, J., and Kleber, M. (2015b). The Contentious Nature of Soil OrganicMatter. Nature 528, 60 –68. doi:10.1038/nature16069Lehmann, J., Solomon, D., Kinyangi, J., Dathe, L., Wirick, S., and Jacobsen, C.(2008). Spatial Complexity of Soil Organic Matter Forms at Nanometre Scales.Nat. Geosci 1 (4), 238 –242. doi:10.1038/ngeo155Lengler, J. W., Drews, G., and Schlegel, H. G. (1999). Biology of the Prokaryotes .Blackwell Science: Thieme Verlag.Li, H., Su, J.-Q., Yang, X.-R., Zhou, G.-W., Lassen, S. B., and Zhu, Y.-G. (2019a).RNA Stable Isotope Probing of Potential Feammox Population in Paddy Soil.Environ. Sci. Technol. 53, 4841 –4849. doi:10.1021/acs.est.8b05016Li, J., Wang, G., Mayes, M. A., Allison, S. D., Frey, S. D., Shi, Z., et al. (2019b).Reduced Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency and Increased Microbial Turnover with SoilWarming. Glob. Change Biol. 25, 900 –910. doi:10.1111/gcb.14517Liang, C., Amelung, W., Lehmann, J., and Kästner, M. (2019). QuantitativeAssessment of Microbial Necromass Contribution to Soil Organic Matter.Glob. Change Biol. 25, 3578 –3590. doi:10.1111/gcb.14781Liang, C., Kästner, M., and Joergensen, R. G. (2020). Microbial Necromass on theRise: The Growing Focus on its Role in Soil Organic Matter Development. SoilBiol. Biochem. 150, 108000. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.108000Liang, C., Schimel, J. P., and Jastrow, J. D. (2017). The Importance of Anabolism inMicrobial Control over Soil Carbon Storage. Nat. Microbiol. 2, 17105.doi:10.1038/nmicrobiol.2017.105Liang, C. (2020). Soil Microbial Carbon Pump: Mechanism and Appraisal. SoilEcol. Lett. 2, 241 –254. doi:10.1007/s42832-020-0052-4Liu, S., Wang, J., Pu, S., Blagodatskaya, E., Kuzyakov, Y., and Razavi, B. S. (2020).Impact of Manure on Soil Biochemical Properties: A Global Synthesis. Sci. TotalEnviron. 745, 141003. doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.141003Liu, X., Hu, G., He, H., Liang, C., Zhang, W., Bai, Z., et al. (2016). Linking MicrobialImmobilization of Fertilizer Nitrogen to In Situ Turnover of Soil MicrobialResidues in an Agro-Ecosystem. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 229, 40 –47.doi:10.1016/j.agee.2016.05.019Loeppmann, S., Breidenbach, A., Spielvogel, S., Dippold, M. A., and Blagodatskaya,E. (2020). Organic Nutrients Induced Coupled C- and P-Cycling EnzymeActivities during Microbial Growth in Forest Soils. Front. For. Glob. Change 3,100. doi:10.3389/ffgc.2020.00100Ludwig, M., Achtenhagen, J., Miltner, A., Eckhardt, K.-U., Leinweber, P.,Emmerling, C., et al. (2015). Microbial Contribution to SOM Quantity andQuality in Density Fractions of Temperate Arable Soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 81,311 –322. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.12.002Lueders, T., Kindler, R., Miltner, A., Friedrich, M. W., and Kaestner, M. (2006).Identi ﬁcation of Bacterial Micropredators Distinctively Active in a SoilMicrobial Food Web. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 72, 5342 –5348. doi:10.1128/aem.00400-06Lueders, T., Pommerenke, B., and Friedrich, M. W. (2004). Stable-Isotope Probingof Microorganisms Thriving at Thermodynamic Limits: Syntrophic PropionateOxidation in Flooded Soil. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 70, 5778 –5786.doi:10.1128/aem.70.10.5778-5786.2004Lünsdorf, H., Erb, R. W., Abraham, W.-R., and Timmis, K. N. (2000). ‘ClayHutches ’: a Novel Interaction between Bacteria and clay Minerals.Environ.Microbiol. 2 (2), 161 –168. doi:10.1046/j.1462-2920.2000.00086.xL ü t z o w ,M .v . ,K ö g e l - K n a b n e r ,I . ,E k s c h m i t t ,K . ,M a t z n e r ,E . ,G u g g e n b e r g e r ,G . ,M a r s c h n e r ,B . ,e ta l .( 2 0 0 6 ) .S t a b i l i z a t i o no fO r g a n i cM a t t e ri nTemperate Soils: Mechanisms and Their Relevance under Different SoilConditions - a Review. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 57, 426 –445. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2389.2006.00809.xM a ,T . ,Z h u ,S . ,W a n g ,Z . ,C h e n ,D . ,D a i ,G . ,F e n g ,B . ,e ta l .( 2 0 1 8 ) .D i v e r g e n tAccumulation of Microbial Necromass and Plant Lignin Components inGrassland Soils. Nat. Commun. 9, 3480. doi:10.1038/s41467-018-05891-1Madigan, M. T., Martinko, J. M., Bender, K. S., Buckley, D. H., and Stahl, D. A.(2014). Brock Biology of Microorganisms . 14th Edn Boston, USA: Pearson Inc.Malik, A. A., Puissant, J., Goodall, T., Allison, S. D., and Grif ﬁths, R. I. (2019). SoilMicrobial Communities with Greater Investment in Resource Acquisition HaveLower Growth Yield. Soil Biol. Biochem. 132, 36 –39. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.01.025Manzoni, S., Čapek, P., Mooshammer, M., Lindahl, B. D., Richter, A., andŠantrůčková, H. (2017). Optimal Metabolic Regulation along ResourceStoichiometry Gradients. Ecol. Lett. 20, 1182 –1191. doi:10.1111/ele.12815Manzoni, S., Čapek, P., Porada, P., Thurner, M., Winterdahl, M., Beer, C., et al.(2018). Reviews and Syntheses: Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency from Organisms toEcosystems - De ﬁnitions, Theories, and Empirical Evidence. Biogeosciences 15(19), 5929 –5949. doi:10.5194/bg-15-5929-2018Manzoni, S., Chakrawal, A., Spohn, M., and Lindahl, B. D. (2021). ModelingMicrobial Adaptations to Nutrient Limitation during Litter Decomposition.Front. For. Glob. Change 4,686945. doi:10.3389/ffgc.2021.686945Manzoni, S., Jackson, R. B., Trofymow, J. A., and Porporato, A. (2008). The GlobalStoichiometry of Litter Nitrogen Mineralization. Science 321, 684 –686.doi:10.1126/science.1159792Manzoni, S., Taylor, P., Richter, A., Porporato, A., and Ågren, G. I. (2012).Environmental and Stoichiometric Controls on Microbial Carbon-useEfﬁciency in Soils. New Phytol. 196, 79 –91. doi:10.1111/j.1469-8137.2012.04225.xMason-Jones, K., Schmücker, N., and Kuzyakov, Y. (2018). Contrasting Effects ofOrganic and mineral Nitrogen challenge the N-Mining Hypothesis for SoilOrganic Matter Priming. Soil Biol. Biochem. 124, 38 –46. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.05.024Masoom, H., Courtier-Murias, D., Farooq, H., Soong, R., Kelleher, B. P., Zhang, C.,et al. (2016). Soil Organic Matter in its Native State: Unravelling the MostComplex Biomaterial on Earth. Environ. Sci. Technol. 50, 1670 –1680.doi:10.1021/acs.est.5b03410Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 16Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsMcCarty, P. L. (2007). Thermodynamic Electron Equivalents Model for BacterialYield Prediction: Modi ﬁcations and Comparative Evaluations. Biotechnol.Bioeng. 97, 377 –388. doi:10.1002/bit.21250Mikutta, R., Mikutta, C., Kalbitz, K., Scheel, T., Kaiser, K., and Jahn, R. (2007).Biodegradation of forest Floor Organic Matter Bound to Minerals via DifferentBinding Mechanisms. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 71 (10), 2569 –2590.doi:10.1016/j.gca.2007.03.002Mikutta, R., Schaumann, G. E., Gildemeister, D., Bonneville, S., Kramer, M. G.,Chorover, J., et al. (2009). Biogeochemistry of mineral-organic Associationsacross a Long-Term Mineralogical Soil Gradient (0.3-4100kyr), HawaiianIslands. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 73, 2034 –2060. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2008.12.028Mikutta, R., Turner, S., Schippers, A., Gentsch, N., Meyer-Stüve, S., Condron, L.M., et al. (2019). Microbial and Abiotic Controls on mineral-associated OrganicMatter in Soil Pro ﬁles along an Ecosystem Gradient. Sci. Rep. 9, 10294.doi:10.1038/s41598-019-46501-4Mikutta, R., Zang, U., Chorover, J., Haumaier, L., and Kalbitz, K. (2011).Stabilization of Extracellular Polymeric Substances (Bacillus Subtilis) byAdsorption to and Coprecipitation with Al Forms. Geochimica etCosmochimica Acta 75, 3135 –3154. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2011.03.006Miltner, A., Bombach, P., Schmidt-Brücken, B., and Kästner, M. (2012). SOMGenesis: Microbial Biomass as a Signi ﬁcant Source. Biogeochemistry 111, 41 –55.doi:10.1007/s10533-011-9658-zMiltner, A., Kindler, R., Knicker, H., Richnow, H.-H., and Kästner, M. (2009). Fateof Microbial Biomass-Derived Amino Acids in Soil and Their Contribution toSoil Organic Matter. Org. Geochem. 40 (9), 978 –985. doi:10.1016/j.orggeochem.2009.06.008Mooshammer, M., Wanek, W., Zechmeister-Boltenstern, S., and Richter, A.(2014). Stoichiometric Imbalances between Terrestrial DecomposerCommunities and Their Resources: Mechanisms and Implications ofMicrobial Adaptations to Their Resources. Front. Microbiol. 5, 22 –10.doi:10.3389/fmicb.2014.00022Mouvenchery, Y. K., Miltner, A., Schurig, C., Kästner, M., and Schaumann, G. E.(2016). Linking Atomic Force Microscopy with Nanothermal Analysis toAssess Microspatial Distribution of Material Characteristics in Young Soils.J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 179, 48 –59. doi:10.1002/jpln.201500082Moyano, F. E., Manzoni, S., and Chenu, C. (2013). Responses of Soil HeterotrophicRespiration to Moisture Availability: An Exploration of Processes and Models.Soil Biol. Biochem. 59, 72 –85. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.01.002Ni, X., Liao, S., Tan, S., Peng, Y., Wang, D., Yue, K., et al. (2020). The VerticalDistribution and Control of Microbial Necromass Carbon in forest Soils. Glob.Ecol. Biogeogr. 00, 1 –11. doi:10.1111/geb.13159Nunan, N., Lerch, T. Z., Pouteau, V., Mora, P., Changey, F., Kätterer, T., et al.(2015). Metabolising Old Soil Carbon: Simply a Matter of Simple OrganicMatter? Soil Biol. Biochem. 88, 128 –136. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.05.018Odum, H. T., and Pinkerton, R. C. (1955). Time ’s Speed Regulator: The OptimumEfﬁciency for Maximum Power Output in Physical and Biological Systems. Am.Scientist 43 (2), 331 –343.Omoike, A., and Chorover, J. (2006). Adsorption to Goethite of ExtracellularPolymeric Substances from Bacillus Subtilis. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta70, 827 –838. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2005.10.012Paul, E. A. (2016). The Nature and Dynamics of Soil Organic Matter: Plant Inputs,Microbial Transformations, and Organic Matter Stabilization. Soil Biol.Biochem. 98, 109 –126. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.04.001Plaza, C., Courtier-Murias, D., Fernández, J. M., Polo, A., and Simpson, A. J.(2013). Physical, Chemical, and Biochemical Mechanisms of Soil OrganicMatter Stabilization under Conservation Tillage Systems: A central Role forMicrobes and Microbial By-Products in C Sequestration. Soil Biol. Biochem. 57,124 –134. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.07.026Posth, N. R., Can ﬁeld, D. E., and Kappler, A. (2014). Biogenic Fe(III) Minerals:From Formation to Diagenesis and Preservation in the Rock Record. Earth-Science Rev. 135, 103 –121. doi:10.1016/j.earscirev.2014.03.012Pronk, G. J., Heister, K., and Kögel-Knabner, I. (2013). Is Turnover andDevelopment of Organic Matter Controlled by mineral Composition?. SoilBiol. Biochem. 67, 235 –244. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.09.006Pronk, G. J., Heister, K., Vogel, C., Babin, D., Bachmann, J., Ding, G.-C., et al.(2017). Interaction of Minerals, Organic Matter, and Microorganisms duringBiogeochemical Interface Formation as Shown by a Series of Arti ﬁcial SoilExperiments. Biol. Fertil. Soils 53 (1), 9 –22. doi:10.1007/s00374-016-1161-1Rasmussen, C., Torn, M. S., and Southard, R. J. (2005). Mineral Assemblage andAggregates Control Carbon Dynamics in a California conifer forest. Soil Sci.Soc. Am. J. 69, 1711 –1721. doi:10.2136/sssaj2005.0040Rath, K. M., Maheshwari, A., and Rousk, J. (2017). The Impact of Salinity on theMicrobial Response to Drying and Rewetting in Soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 108,17–26. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.01.018R i c h t e r ,A . ,K e r n ,T . ,W o l f ,S . ,S t r u c k ,U . ,a n dR u e s s ,L .( 2 0 1 9 ) .T r o p h i ca n dN o n -trophic Interactions in Binary Links Affect Carbon Flow in the Soil Micro-food Web. Soil Biol. Biochem. 135, 239 –247. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.04.010R i l l i g ,M .C . ,A n t o n o v i c s ,J . ,C a r u s o ,T . ,L e h m a n n ,A . ,P o w e l l ,J .R . ,V e r e s o g l o u ,S. D., et al. (2015). Interchange of Entire Communities: MicrobialCommunity Coalescence. Trends Ecol. Evol. 30, 470 –476. doi:10.1016/j.tree.2015.06.004Rillig, M. C., Caldwell, B. A., Wösten, H. A. B., and Sollins, P. (2007). Role ofProteins in Soil Carbon and Nitrogen Storage: Controls on Persistence.Biogeochemistry 85, 25 –44. doi:10.1007/s10533-007-9102-6Rittmann, B. E., and McCarty, P. L. (2001). Environmental Biotechnology:Principles and Applications . New York: McGraw-Hill.R o l l e r ,B .R . ,a n dS c h m i d t ,T .M .( 2 0 1 5 ) .T h eP h y s i o l o g ya n dE c o l o g i c a lI m p l i c a t i o n so fEfﬁcient Growth. Isme J. 9, 1481 –1487. doi:10.1038/ismej.2014.235Russell, J. B., and Cook, G. M. (1995). Energetics of Bacterial Growth: Balance ofAnabolic and Catabolic Reactions. Microbiol. Rev. 59, 48 –62. doi:10.1128/mr.59.1.48-62.1995Scharlemann, J. P., Tanner, E. V., Hiederer, R., and Kapos, V. (2014). Global SoilCarbon: Understanding and Managing the Largest Terrestrial Carbon Pool.Carbon Manag. 5, 81 –91. doi:10.4155/cmt.13.77Schimel, J., Balser, T. C., and Wallenstein, M. (2007). Microbial Stress-ResponsePhysiology and its Implications for Ecosystem Function. Ecology88,1386 –1394. doi:10.1890/06-0219Schimel, J. P., and Schaeffer, S. M. (2012). Microbial Control over Carbon Cyclingin Soil. Front. Microbio. 3, 1 –11. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2012.00348Schimel, J., and Weintraub, M. N. (2003). The Implications of Exoenzyme Activityon Microbial Carbon and Nitrogen Limitation in Soil: a Theoretical Model. SoilBiol. Biochem. 35, 549 –563. doi:10.1016/s0038-0717(03)00015-4Schink, B. (2006). Microbially Driven Redox Reactions in Anoxic Environments:Pathways, Energetics, and Biochemical Consequences. Eng. Life Sci. 6, 228 –233.doi:10.1002/elsc.200620130Schmidt, M. W. I., Torn, M. S., Abiven, S., Dittmar, T., Guggenberger, G., Janssens,I. A., et al. (2011). Persistence of Soil Organic Matter as an Ecosystem Property.Nature 478 (7367), 49 –56. doi:10.1038/nature10386Schneider, M. P. W., Scheel, T., Mikutta, R., van Hees, P., Kaiser, K., and Kalbitz, K.(2010). Sorptive Stabilization of Organic Matter by Amorphous Al Hydroxide.Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 74, 1606 –1619. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2009.12.017Schurig, C., Smittenberg, R. H., Berger, J., Kraft, F., Woche, S. K., Goebel, M.-O.,et al. (2013). Microbial Cell-Envelope Fragments and the Formation of SoilOrganic Matter: a Case Study from a Glacier Fore ﬁeld.Biogeochemistry 113,595 –612. doi:10.1007/s10533-012-9791-3Schweigert, M., Herrmann, S., Miltner, A., Fester, T., and Kästner, M. (2015). Fateof Ectomycorrhizal Fungal Biomass in a Soil Bioreactor System and itsContribution to Soil Organic Matter Formation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 88,120 –127. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.05.012Simpson, A. J., Simpson, M. J., Smith, E., and Kelleher, B. P. (2007). MicrobiallyDerived Inputs to Soil Organic Matter: Are Current Estimates Too Low?Environ. Sci. Technol. 41 (23), 8070 –8076. doi:10.1021/es071217xSims, J. L., Sims, R. C., and Matthews, J. E. (1990). Approach to Bioremediation ofContaminated Soil. Hazard. Waste Hazard. Mater. 7(2),117 –149. doi:10.1089/hwm.1990.7.117Sinsabaugh, R. L., Turner, B. L., Talbot, J. M., Waring, B. G., Powers, J. S., Kuske, C.R., et al. (2016). Stoichiometry of Microbial Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency in Soils. Ecol.Monogr. 86 (2), 172 –189. doi:10.1890/15-2110.1Soares, M., and Rousk, J. (2019). Microbial Growth and Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency inSoil: Links to Fungal-Bacterial Dominance, SOC-Quality and Stoichiometry.Soil Biol. Biochem. 131, 195 –205. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.01.010Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 17Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —ImplicationsSokol, N. W., and Bradford, M. A. (2019). Microbial Formation of Stable SoilCarbon Is More Ef ﬁcient from Belowground Than Aboveground Input. Nat.Geosci 12, 46 –53. doi:10.1038/s41561-018-0258-6Sokol, N. W., Sanderman, J., and Bradford, M. A. (2018). Pathways of mineral-associated Soil Organic Matter Formation: Integrating the Role of Plant CarbonSource, Chemistry, and point of Entry. Glob. Change Biol. 25, 12 –24.doi:10.1111/gcb.14482Spence, A., Simpson, A. J., McNally, D. J., Moran, B. W., McCaul, M. V., Hart, K.,et al. (2011). The Degradation Characteristics of Microbial Biomass in Soil.Geochimica Et Cosmochimica Acta 75, 2571 –2581. doi:10.1016/j.gca.2011.03.012Spohn, M. (2016). Element Cycling as Driven by Stoichiometric Homeostasis ofSoil Microorganisms. Basic Appl. Ecol. 17, 471 –478. doi:10.1016/j.baae.2016.05.003Spohn, M., Pötsch, E. M., Eichorst, S. A., Woebken, D., Wanek, W., and Richter, A.(2016). Soil Microbial Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency and Biomass Turnover in a Long-Term Fertilization experiment in a Temperate Grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 97,168 –175. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.03.008Starke, R., Bastida, F., Abadía, J., García, C., Nicolás, E., and Jehmlich, N. (2017).Ecological and Functional Adaptations to Water Management in a SemiaridAgroecosystem: a Soil Metaproteomics Approach. Sci. Rep. 7, 10221.doi:10.1038/s41598-017-09973-wStarr, E. P., Shi, S., Blazewicz, S. J., Probst, A. J., Herman, D. J., Firestone, M. K.,et al. (2018). Stable Isotope Informed Genome-Resolved Metagenomics Revealsthat Saccharibacteria Utilize Microbially-Processed Plant-Derived Carbon.Microbiome 6, 122. doi:10.1186/s40168-018-0499-zTakriti, M., Wild, B., Schnecker, J., Mooshammer, M., Knoltsch, A., Lashchinskiy,N., et al. (2018). Soil Organic Matter Quality Exerts a Stronger Control ThanStoichiometry on Microbial Substrate Use Ef ﬁciency along a LatitudinalTransect. Soil Biol. Biochem. 121, 212 –220. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.02.022Throckmorton, H. M., Bird, J. A., Monte, N., Doane, T., Firestone, M. K., andHorwath, W. R. (2015). The Soil Matrix Increases Microbial C Stabilization inTemperate and Tropical forest Soils. Biogeochemistry 122, 35 –45. doi:10.1007/s10533-014-0027-6Trapp, S., Brock, A. L., Nowak, K., and Kästner, M. (2018). Prediction of theFormation of Biogenic Nonextractable Residues during Degradation ofEnvironmental Chemicals from Biomass Yields. Environ. Sci. Technol. 52(2), 663 –672. doi:10.1021/acs.est.7b04275Turner, S., Meyer-Stüve, S., Schippers, A., Guggenberger, G., Schaarschmidt, F.,Wild, B., et al. (2017). Microbial Utilization of mineral-associated Nitrogen inSoils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 104, 185 –196. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.10.010Uden, N. (1967). Transport-limited Growth in the Chemostat and its CompetitiveInhibition; a Theoretical Treatment. Archiv. Mikrobiol. 58, 145 –154.doi:10.1007/bf00406675van Bodegom, P. (2007). Microbial Maintenance: A Critical Review on itsQuanti ﬁcation. Microb. Ecol. 53, 513 –523. doi:10.1007/s00248-006-9049-5van der Heijden, M. G. A., Bardgett, R. D., and van Straalen, N. M. (2008). TheUnseen Majority: Soil Microbes as Drivers of Plant Diversity and Productivityin Terrestrial Ecosystems. Ecol. Lett. 11, 296 –310. doi:10.1111/j.1461-0248.2007.01139.xvon Stockar, U. (2010). Biothermodynamics of Live Cells: a Tool for Biotechnologyand Biochemical Engineering. J. Non-Equilibrium Thermodynamics 35,415 –475. doi:10.1515/jnetdy.2010.024Wang, B., An, S., Liang, C., Liu, Y., and Kuzyakov, Y. (2021a). Microbial Necromassas the Source of Soil Organic Carbon in Global Ecosystems. Soil Biol. Biochem.162, 108422. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2021.108422Wang, C., Qu, L., Yang, L., LiuLiu, D., Morrissey, E., Miao, R., et al. (2021b). Large-scale Importance of Microbial Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency and Necromass to SoilOrganic Carbon. Glob. Change Biol. 27, 2039 –2048. doi:10.1111/gcb.15550Waring, B. G., Sulman, B. N., Reed, S., Smith, A. P., A., Creamer, C. A., et al. (2020).From Pools to Flow: The PROMISE Framework for New Insights on SoilCarbon Cycling in a Changing World. Glob. Change Biol. 26, 6631 –6643.doi:10.1111/gcb.15365Wei, X., Zhu, Z., Liu, Y., Luo, Y., Deng, Y., Xu, X., et al. (2020). C:N:P StoichiometryRegulates Soil Organic Carbon Mineralization and Concomitant Shifts inMicrobial Community Composition in Paddy Soil. Biol. Fertil. Soils 56,1093 –1107. doi:10.1007/s00374-020-01468-7Westerhoff, H. V., Lolkema, J. S., Otto, R., and Hellingwerf, K. J. (1982).Thermodynamics of Growth. Non-equilibrium Thermodynamics ofBacterial Growth. The Phenomenological and the Mosaic Approach.Biochim. Biophys. Acta 683, 181 –220. doi:10.1016/0304-4173(82)90001-5W i l l i a m s o n ,K .E . ,F u h r m a n n ,J .J . ,W o m m a c k ,K .E . ,a n dR a d o s e v i c h ,M .( 2 0 1 7 ) .Viruses in Soil Ecosystems: An Unknown Quantity within an Unexplored Territory.Annu. Rev. Virol. 4, 201 –219. doi:10.1146/annurev-virology-101416-041639Winkler, P., Kaiser, K., Jahn, R., Mikutta, R., Fiedler, S., Cerli, C., et al. (2019).Tracing Organic Carbon and Microbial Community Structure inMineralogically Different Soils Exposed to Redox Fluctuations.Biogeochemistry 143, 31 –54. doi:10.1007/s10533-019-00548-7Woche, S. K., Goebel, M.-O., Mikutta, R., Schurig, C., Kaestner, M., Guggenberger, G.,et al. (2017). Soil Wettability Can Be Explained by the Chemical Composition ofParticle Interfaces - an XPS Study. Sci. Rep. 7, 42877. doi:10.1038/srep42877Woolf, D., and Lehmann, J. (2019). Microbial Models with Minimal mineralprotection Can Explain Long-Term Soil Organic Carbon Persistence. Sci. Rep.9, 6522. doi:10.1038/s41598-019-43026-8Xiao, J., and VanBriesen, J. M. (2008). Expanded Thermodynamic True YieldPrediction Model: Adjustments and Limitations. Biodegradation 19 (1),99–127. doi:10.1007/s10532-007-9119-5Xu, X., Thornton, P. E., and Post, W. M. (2013). A Global Analysis of Soil MicrobialBiomass Carbon, Nitrogen and Phosphorus in Terrestrial Ecosystems. Glob.Ecol. Biogeogr. 22, 737 –749. doi:10.1111/geb.12029Zechmeister-Boltenstern, S., Keiblinger, K. M., Mooshammer, M., Peñuelas, J.,Richter, A., Sardans, J., et al. (2015). The Application of EcologicalStoichiometry to Plant-Microbial-Soil Organic Matter Transformations. Ecol.Monogr. 85 (2), 133 –155. doi:10.1890/14-0777.1Zheng, Q., Hu, Y., Zhang, S., Noll, L., Böckle, T., Richter, A., et al. (2019). GrowthExplains Microbial Carbon Use Ef ﬁciency across Soils Differing in Land Useand Geology. Soil Biol. Biochem. 128, 45 –55. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2018.10.006Zheng, T., Miltner, A., Liang, C., Nowak, K. M., and Kästner, M. (2021). Turnoverof Gram-Negative Bacterial Biomass-Derived Carbon through the MicrobialFood Web of an Agricultural Soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 152, 108070. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.108070Zhu, X., Jackson, R. D., DeLucia, E. H., Tiedje, J. M., and Liang, C. (2020). The SoilMicrobial Carbon Pump: From Conceptual Insights to Empirical Assessments.Glob. Change Biol. 26, 6032 –6039. doi:10.1111/gcb.15319Conﬂict of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in theabsence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as apotential con ﬂict of interest.Publisher ’s Note: All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authorsand do not necessarily represent those of their af ﬁliated organizations, or those ofthe publisher, the editors and the reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated inthis article, or claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed orendorsed by the publisher.Copyright © 2021 Kästner, Miltner, Thiele-Bruhn and Liang. This is an open-accessarticle distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CCBY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided theoriginal author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the originalpublication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice.No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply withthese terms.Frontiers in Environmental Science | www.frontiersin.org December 2021 | Volume 9 | Article 756378 18Kästner et al. Microbial Necromass in Soils —Implications