Citation: Li, Z.; Xiong, K.; Wen, W.;Li, L.; Xu, D. Functional EndophytesRegulating Plant SecondaryMetabolism: Current Status,Prospects and Applications. Int. J.Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms24021153Academic Editor: Hai DuReceived: 18 November 2022Revised: 26 December 2022Accepted: 28 December 2022Published: 6 January 2023Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). International Journal of  Molecular SciencesReviewFunctional Endophytes Regulating Plant SecondaryMetabolism: Current Status, Prospects and ApplicationsZhaogao Li1,†, Keyi Xiong1,†, Weie Wen1, Lin Li1,* and Delin Xu2,*1Department of Cell Biology, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi 563099, China2Engineering Research Center of Key Technology Development for Guizhou Provincial Dendrobium NobileIndustry, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi 563099, China*Correspondence: lilinzmc2015@163.com (L.L.); xudelin2000@163.com (D.X.); Tel.: +86-18683520327 (L.L.);+86-15885688109 (D.X.)† These authors contributed equally to this work.Abstract: Endophytes, which are widely found in host plants and have no harmful effects, are avital biological resource. Plant endophytes promote plant growth and enhance plants’ resistance todiseases, pests, and environmental stresses. In addition, they enhance the synthesis of importantsecondary metabolites in plants and improve the potential applicability of plants in agriculture,medicine, food, and horticulture. In this review, we summarize the recent progress in understandingthe interaction between endophytes and plants and summarize the construction of synthetic microbialcommunities (SynComs) and metaomics analysis of the interaction between endophytes and plants.The application and development prospects of endophytes in agriculture, medicine, and otherindustries are also discussed to provide a reference for further study of the interaction betweenendophytes and plants and further development and utilization of endophytes.Keywords: endophytes; biosynthesis mechanism; secondary metabolites; SynComs; metaomics1. IntroductionEndophytes are diverse and valuable resources in nature with the potential for hu-man exploitation. In the early stage of endophyte discovery, the soil microbiota was themain seed bank for bioactive compounds [ 1,2]. In recent years, the search for microbialcandidate sources with high application potential has become an area of increasing focus,as the repeated discovery of known metabolites from soil microorganisms has becomemore frequent. There is a great deal of interest in the potential of microorganisms frompoorly studied environments, including plant-related microorganisms such as endophytes.Undoubtedly, as essential components of the plant microecosystem, endophytes have aprofound inﬂuence on the synthesis and accumulation of various secondary metabolitesin the host plant. To date, active substances with signiﬁcant therapeutic effects, such asanticancer drugs, antibiotics, antiviral drugs, antidiabetic drugs, and immunosuppres-sive compounds, have been isolated from poorly studied endophytes interacting withplants [ 3–6]. Despite some advances, the molecular mechanisms by which endophytesinﬂuence the occurrence of metabolic substances in plants are still unknown. Fortunately,further analysis of the biological features, structure–activity relationships, and modes ofaction between endophytes and plants can aid in the further investigation of their in-terrelationships. This will facilitate the exploration of the molecular mechanisms andrelated signaling pathways via which endophytes affect the generation of plant secondarymetabolites [7].Secondary metabolites (SMs) are the products formed by interactions with the envi-ronment during plant growth and development. SMs mainly include alkaloids, ﬂavonoids,terpenoids, peptides, phenols, sterols, and additional minor molecular organic com-pounds [ 8,9]. As essential substances used by plants for self-protection to cope withInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms24021153 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/ijmsInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 2 of 23their environment, SMs have various physiological functions, such as regulating plantgrowth and biological defense, and they are also involved in the plant response abioticstresses, such as drought, low temperature, salinity, and metals [ 10–13]. In recent years,research on plant SMs has developed rapidly, especially in of the ﬁelds of human healthand agricultural production [ 14]. However, the yield of SMs from plants is very limitedand is far from meeting the growing market demand. Therefore, it is imperative to ﬁndways to improve the biosynthesis of SMs in plants.To date, several reviews on plant SMs have been published [ 15–17], but there arefew systematic reviews on how endophytes affect the synthesis of plant SMs [ 18–20].In this review, we have summarized the development of endophyte–plant interactionsand the molecular mechanisms of endophyte–plant SM interactions, and we have pre-sented a platform for endophyte–plant interactions. Furthermore, the possible role ofendophyte-promoted plant SMs in plant growth induction, structure–activity relation-ships, mechanisms of action of SMs in plants, and practical applications in human life arediscussed.2. Basis of the Interaction between Endophytes and PlantsEndophytes play a signiﬁcant role in promoting the growth of host plants, and con-versely, plant bodies are also crucial for the adaptation of endophytes to complex environ-ments [ 21]. An essential manifestation of the host plant’s inﬂuence on endophytes is that itprovides an environment with sufﬁcient water and nutrients for endophyte colonization,either inside or on its surface, and forms certain special structures [ 22]. Endophytes arefrequently observed in plants in the form of multicellular aggregate communities, whichhave attracted signiﬁcant attention in recent years because they can be regarded as a special“microecological” system formed by endophytes and host plants [ 23–25]. In this system, aseries of distinct interactions occur between endophytes and plants. These interactions helpendophytes resist environmental changes more effectively and assist plants in producingbiological products conducive to their growth.2.1. Evolution of Interactions between Endophytes and Groups of PlantsEndophytes interact with plants over extended periods of time. In nature, the oceanis the cradle of life, with algae and bacteria being the main remaining members fromthe early ocean. They produce oxygen during metabolism to support life and promotethe switch from aquatic to terrestrial life [ 26,27]. Two signiﬁcant factors inﬂuence thetransition from aquatic to terrestrial life in plants (Figure 1). In the absence of chlorophyllmolecules, plants can survive on land by reducing their light-catching surface, whichis also suitable for the dark habitat of early terrestrial bryophytes [ 28]. In addition, theearly interaction with soil microorganisms enabled moss to survive on land for a longtime, which was the beginning of the interaction between plants and microorganisms inevolutionary terms [ 29]. Fossil evidence from 400 million years ago strongly suggests thatplants engaged in symbiotic associations with mycorrhizal fungi [ 30], and the adaptivevalue of this ability has been preserved throughout plant evolutionary history. However,reliable evidence of interactions between plants and microorganisms found in modernstudies came from the 1930s: when livestock ate endophytic fungus-infected herbage, greatlosses occurred in the animal husbandry industry, leading to the initial understanding ofendophytic bacteria in plants [31].A major problem facing humanity in the 21st century is the lack of plant resources [ 32],a challenge further exacerbated by human population growth, soil degradation, and pol-lution from various environmental factors, including ﬂoods, droughts [ 33], salinity [ 34],temperature (extreme heat and cold) [ 35], and heavy metals [ 36]. Plants are saprobic, butthey have evolved defense mechanisms for sensing and adapting to stressful environmentsover long periods of evolution. Some common and extensively used methods includeosmotic agent production, altered water movement, and scavenging of reactive oxygenspecies [ 32]. Endophytes, as an essential link in the adaptation of plants to environmentalInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 3 of 23changes, undoubtedly play an essential role. Indeed, as endophytes are being intensivelystudied, their interaction with plants has great potential value for effectively addressingthe current shortage of plant resources. Therefore, it is essential to explore the evolution ofendophyte–plant interactions.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  3 of 26    Figure 1. Model diagram of endophytes promoting the evolution of lower plants from aquatic to terrestrial conditions. In the ocean, the evolution of chlorophyll -a made it possible for lower algae to obtain O 2 by forming interactions with nitrogen -fixing bacteria and then migrate onto land. On land, nitrifying bacteria and other beneficial microorganisms can obtain O 2 and nutrients needed to maintain th eir own growth, resist environmental stress , and evolve into shade -loving mosses. Fi-nally, organic acids produced by mosses digest stones and fertilize the soil.  A major problem facing humanity in the 21st century is the lack of plant resources [32], a cha llenge further exacerbated by human population growth, soil degradation, and pollution from various environmental factors, including floods, droughts [33], salinity [34], temperature (extreme heat and cold) [35], and heavy metals [36]. Plants are saprobic,  but they have evolved defense  mechanisms for sensing and adapting to stressful environ-ments over long periods of evolution. Some common and extensively used methods in-clude osmotic agent production, altered water movement, and scavenging of reactive ox-ygen species [32]. Endophytes, as  an essential link in the adaptation of plants to environ-mental changes, undoubtedly play an essential role. Indeed, as endophytes are being in-tensively studied, their interaction with plants has great potential value for effectively ad-dressing the current  shortage of plant resources. Therefore, it is essential to explore the evolution of endophyte –plant interactions.  2.2. Changes in the Genetic Material of Endophytes Interacting with Plants  Plant genes are fundamental to cellular processes and defense mech anisms in gen-eral. However, long ago, plants actively evolved genetic modules to support symbiosis and benefit from the presence of microorganisms. This represented an essential genetic shift in plants from aquatic to terrestrial life and formed a strong b asis for active genetic innovation in plants. Despite the risk of invasion by pathogens, these modules are still retained in plants and support the interaction between plants and endophytes [37]. Cur-rently, the mechanisms by which plants respond to invadin g microorganisms by symbio-sis or immune response are unknown, but some exciting discoveries have been made (Fig-ure 2). An intriguing example involves a LysM receptor involved in mycorrhizal interac-tions. Nearly all terrestrial plants have LysM receptors th at ensure the detection of various microbial signals. LysM receptors have a variety of minor molecular phantom structures on their surface that can bind to different proteins to form specific receptors. Chitin on the surface of pathogens or symbiotic signa ling molecules (Nod factor, Myc factor) produced by beneficial microorganisms can be efficiently recognized, and the output of signals for Figure 1. Model diagram of endophytes promoting the evolution of lower plants from aquatic toterrestrial conditions. In the ocean, the evolution of chlorophyll-a made it possible for lower algaeto obtain O 2by forming interactions with nitrogen-ﬁxing bacteria and then migrate onto land. Onland, nitrifying bacteria and other beneﬁcial microorganisms can obtain O 2and nutrients needed tomaintain their own growth, resist environmental stress, and evolve into shade-loving mosses. Finally,organic acids produced by mosses digest stones and fertilize the soil.2.2. Changes in the Genetic Material of Endophytes Interacting with PlantsPlant genes are fundamental to cellular processes and defense mechanisms in general.However, long ago, plants actively evolved genetic modules to support symbiosis andbeneﬁt from the presence of microorganisms. This represented an essential genetic shift inplants from aquatic to terrestrial life and formed a strong basis for active genetic innovationin plants. Despite the risk of invasion by pathogens, these modules are still retainedin plants and support the interaction between plants and endophytes [ 37]. Currently,the mechanisms by which plants respond to invading microorganisms by symbiosis orimmune response are unknown, but some exciting discoveries have been made (Figure 2).An intriguing example involves a LysM receptor involved in mycorrhizal interactions.Nearly all terrestrial plants have LysM receptors that ensure the detection of variousmicrobial signals. LysM receptors have a variety of minor molecular phantom structureson their surface that can bind to different proteins to form speciﬁc receptors. Chitin on thesurface of pathogens or symbiotic signaling molecules (Nod factor, Myc factor) producedby beneﬁcial microorganisms can be efﬁciently recognized, and the output of signals forthe antimicrobial defense of plants against pathogens or the symbiotic reaction betweenmicrobes and plants can be controlled [ 38,39]. During this process, intense calcium ionshock events occur in the nucleus in response to the incoming symbiotic signal. In addition,during mycorrhizal symbiosis, OsMYR1, as a fungal receptor, can accurately identify thedifferences in chitin between fungi and recruit beneﬁcial endophytic fungi [40].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 4 of 23Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 26   the antimicrobial defense of plants against pathogens or the symbiotic reaction between microbes and plants can be co ntrolled [38,39] . During this process, intense calcium ion shock events occur in the nucleus in response to the incoming symbiotic signal. In addi-tion, during mycorrhizal symbiosis, OsMYR1, as a fungal receptor, can accurately identify the differences in c hitin between fungi and recruit beneficial endophytic fungi [40].  Figure 2. Patterns of molecular mechanisms underlying the initiation of symbiotic or immune re-sponses of plants to signaling molecules during mycorrhizal interactions. LysM1 receptor modules interact with different proteins to form unique -acting receptors on plant cell membrane surfaces (NFR1, LYK3, CERK6, OsMYR1 -OsCERK1, OsMYR1 -OsCEBIP et al.), and some receptors antago-nize each other, such as the OsMYR1 -OsCERK1 receptor and the OsMYR1 -OsCEBIP receptor. When mycorrhizal interactions occur, extracellular signal molecules (Nod factor, Myc factor, chitin et al.) with these particular receptor combinations form defense or symbiotic signals in the cytoplasm, which initiate the plan t cell’s internal defense or the expression of related genes. In addition, sym-biosis and defense reactions in the process of symbiosis are accompanied by strong calcium oscilla-tion in the nuclei. In calcium excitation, the symbiotic signal activates DMI2 p rotein under the action of related receptors, and the related channel proteins DMI1 and CNGC15s on the nuclear membrane are activated through the signal cascade reaction. The electrochemical signal in the nucleus changes dramatically, resulting in the move ment of Ca2+ between the inner and outer membrane of the nu-cleus and the perinuclear lumen.  Changes in genetic material are important for plant evolution and the core factor af-fecting endophyte –plant interactions. The interactions of early microbes depende d only on the shallow surface area or on free space in the plant body [29,41] , and these interac-tions did not lead to the formation of a symbiotic association in the traditional sense. Deep symbiosis later resulted from horizontal gene transfer (HGT) between species. Compared with vertical gene transfer (VGT), the greatest innovati on of HGT is that it disrupts the reproductive isolation between species and makes the communication of genetic material between various organisms in nature more complex and diverse [42,43] . At present, HGT is known to commonly occur in prokaryotes and uni cellular eukaryotes, but in multicel-lular eukaryotes, HGT is often considered to occur less frequently [44]. As observed in plants with endogenous bacteria, gene transfer in multicellular eukaryotes is a landmark event. On the one hand, these transfer even ts increase the genetic diversity of organisms, expanding the horizons of scientific research. On the other hand, they give plants and endogenous bacteria the ability to adapt to their changing environment, as plant –endo-phyte interactions are very importan t for genetic stability [45]. Therefore, the identifica-tion of changes in genetic material between plants and endophytes may allow us to Figure 2. Patterns of molecular mechanisms underlying the initiation of symbiotic or immuneresponses of plants to signaling molecules during mycorrhizal interactions. LysM1 receptor modulesinteract with different proteins to form unique-acting receptors on plant cell membrane surfaces(NFR1, LYK3, CERK6, OsMYR1-OsCERK1, OsMYR1-OsCEBIP et al.), and some receptors antagonizeeach other, such as the OsMYR1-OsCERK1 receptor and the OsMYR1-OsCEBIP receptor. Whenmycorrhizal interactions occur, extracellular signal molecules (Nod factor, Myc factor, chitin et al.)with these particular receptor combinations form defense or symbiotic signals in the cytoplasm, whichinitiate the plant cell’s internal defense or the expression of related genes. In addition, symbiosisand defense reactions in the process of symbiosis are accompanied by strong calcium oscillation inthe nuclei. In calcium excitation, the symbiotic signal activates DMI2 protein under the action ofrelated receptors, and the related channel proteins DMI1 and CNGC15s on the nuclear membraneare activated through the signal cascade reaction. The electrochemical signal in the nucleus changesdramatically, resulting in the movement of Ca2+between the inner and outer membrane of thenucleus and the perinuclear lumen.Changes in genetic material are important for plant evolution and the core factoraffecting endophyte–plant interactions. The interactions of early microbes dependedonly on the shallow surface area or on free space in the plant body [ 29,41], and theseinteractions did not lead to the formation of a symbiotic association in the traditionalsense. Deep symbiosis later resulted from horizontal gene transfer (HGT) between species.Compared with vertical gene transfer (VGT), the greatest innovation of HGT is that itdisrupts the reproductive isolation between species and makes the communication ofgenetic material between various organisms in nature more complex and diverse [ 42,43].At present, HGT is known to commonly occur in prokaryotes and unicellular eukaryotes,but in multicellular eukaryotes, HGT is often considered to occur less frequently [ 44]. Asobserved in plants with endogenous bacteria, gene transfer in multicellular eukaryotes isa landmark event. On the one hand, these transfer events increase the genetic diversityof organisms, expanding the horizons of scientiﬁc research. On the other hand, they giveplants and endogenous bacteria the ability to adapt to their changing environment, asplant–endophyte interactions are very important for genetic stability [ 45]. Therefore, theidentiﬁcation of changes in genetic material between plants and endophytes may allow usto quickly reveal the mechanisms related to microecological system balance and functionduring interactions between plants and endophytes.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 5 of 232.3. Progress in Research on Endogenous MicroecosystemsPlants actively seek the help of microbes to survive stressful situations. Over the pastdecade, there has been a paradigm shift in plant science, with the discovery of microbialfunctions and community composition increasingly being seen as drivers for improving thefunctioning of plant hosts. The endophytic microbiome can expand the plant genome andmetabolic capacity to provide or promote a range of functions that help plants maintainbasic life activities, including nutrient acquisition, immune regulation, and biologicalstress tolerance. Although endophytic microbial communities have been proposed as thenext platform for the Green Revolution, basic research on the mechanisms of microbialcommunity assembly and activity is still in its infancy [ 46]. Fortunately, in recent years,some progress has been made in the construction of a microecological balance betweenendophytes and plant hosts. Based on these ﬁndings, it is possible to decipher the functionaldiversity and complexity of the spatiotemporal dynamics of plant microbial communitiesand explore the balance of the endophyte microecological system [47].Few topics in plant biology have aroused as much interest and controversy as endophyte–plant microecosystems. However, although the phenomenon of endophyte–plant microe-cosystems is now widely accepted, there are still various questions about how and whyendophytes develop, how they maintain balance, and how they affect the growth processesof plants [ 25]. Numerous research results show that when plants recruit beneﬁcial microbes,the symbiotic effects can increase the release of key molecular compounds during endo-phyte colonization [ 48,49]. Some plants can even regulate the absorption of nutrients andthe expression of related genes at different stages of successful endophytic colonization. En-dophytes that successfully colonize plants quickly use plant bodies to obtain the nutrientsthey need and rapidly form a stable collection of microbial communities, also known as themicrobiome [ 50]. The microbiome is present in all parts and tissues of plants, forming amicroecosystem with comprehensive linkages that can help all organisms cope with theoverall impact of environmental conditions on the microecosystem and provide beneﬁts toboth microbial communities and plants.To date, many unique metabolic substances have been discovered in plant–endophytemicroecosystems. These substances provide a reference for successfully revealing thetypes of interactions in endophyte–plant microecosystems. For example, microorganismscan stimulate plant growth by metabolizing tryptophan and other small molecules inplant secretions and producing plant hormones, including coenzymes, gibberellic acid(GA), cytokinin (CTK), and plant hormone analogues [ 51]. Coenzymes can also inducethe transcription of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthetase and catalyzethe formation of ACC. As the direct precursor of ethylene, ACC can be metabolized byendophytes through ACC deaminase to ameliorate abiotic stress [ 52]. Plant-associatedmicrobiome members also produce a series of enzymes that detoxify reactive oxygenspecies (ROS), thereby minimizing plant-induced stress. In addition, the plant-associatedmicrobiome protects plants from pathogens by producing antibiotics, lyases, and volatiles.Various microbial structures, such as secretory systems, ﬂagella, and cilia, and proteins,including effector proteins, indirectly contribute to plant defense responses by triggering theinduced systemic resistance response (ISR) [ 53]. At the same time, the microbial populationsinvolved in the interactions within and between species also maintain a balance in theecosystem to protect plants from pathogens, and the core endogenous bacteria can alsoamplify signals from the host, promoting microbiome restructuring to form the appropriatecommunity structure in time and space under dynamic conditions to provide beneﬁtsto the plant [ 54]. Endophytes can alter the formation of secondary metabolites in plants,and they also produce many unique metabolites to enrich the resource pool of plants.In general, the stable formation of endophytes and plant microecosystems improves thegrowth performance and health status of plants and plays an increasingly important role inthe process of plant growth and development (Figure 3).Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 6 of 23Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 26   plants. In general, the stable formation of endophytes and plant microecosys tems im-proves the growth performance and health status of plants and plays an increasingly im-portant role in the process of plant growth and development (Figure 3).   Figure 3. Plants recruit beneficial microorganisms to colonize and maintain the stability of the mi-croecological system. As the plant grows, soil microorganisms are enriched, forming soil microbial communities at the roots. On the one hand, the interaction of microorganisms is used to improve the living environment, and on the other h and, inorganic elements in the soil (C, P, K , et al.) are enriched to provide nutrients needed for growth and development. In this process, plants release special substances that attract certain microorganisms from the environment and direct the coloni-zation of beneficial microbes, triggering a range  of physiological and biochemical reactions.  3. Molecular Mechanisms Affecting the Secondary Metabolites of Endophytes in Plants  Endophyte action is a popular research topic in research on plant secondary metab-olite formation and its influencing factors. P revious studies have suggested that the syn-thesis of diverse secondary metabolites in plants is related to the influence of various en-vironmental factors, such as temperature, light, and microorganisms. Endophytes, as im-portant environmental factors, play an important role in the formation and accumulation of secondary metabolites in plants. There have been many studies on the mechanisms by which endophytes promote the synthesis of secondary metabolites in plants, but there is no unified view within the sci entific community. At present, there are four main hypoth-esized mechanisms: endophytes promote the accumulation of photosynthetic material in plants [55–58]. Endophytes regulate the expression of genes related to plant secondary metabolites [59–61]. The transfer of endophytes leads to the formation of compounds or alters the genetic material within plants [62,63] . The synthesis of unique secondary me-tabolites by endophytes affects plant material synthesis pathways [57,64] . 3.1. Endophytes Promote the Accumulation of Photosynthetic Material in Plants  Figure 3. Plants recruit beneﬁcial microorganisms to colonize and maintain the stability of themicroecological system. As the plant grows, soil microorganisms are enriched, forming soil microbialcommunities at the roots. On the one hand, the interaction of microorganisms is used to improve theliving environment, and on the other hand, inorganic elements in the soil (C, P , K, et al.) are enrichedto provide nutrients needed for growth and development. In this process, plants release specialsubstances that attract certain microorganisms from the environment and direct the colonization ofbeneﬁcial microbes, triggering a range of physiological and biochemical reactions.3. Molecular Mechanisms Affecting the Secondary Metabolites of Endophytes inPlantsEndophyte action is a popular research topic in research on plant secondary metaboliteformation and its inﬂuencing factors. Previous studies have suggested that the synthesis ofdiverse secondary metabolites in plants is related to the inﬂuence of various environmentalfactors, such as temperature, light, and microorganisms. Endophytes, as important envi-ronmental factors, play an important role in the formation and accumulation of secondarymetabolites in plants. There have been many studies on the mechanisms by which endo-phytes promote the synthesis of secondary metabolites in plants, but there is no uniﬁedview within the scientiﬁc community. At present, there are four main hypothesized mecha-nisms: endophytes promote the accumulation of photosynthetic material in plants [ 55–58].Endophytes regulate the expression of genes related to plant secondary metabolites [ 59–61].The transfer of endophytes leads to the formation of compounds or alters the genetic mate-rial within plants [ 62,63]. The synthesis of unique secondary metabolites by endophytesaffects plant material synthesis pathways [57,64].3.1. Endophytes Promote the Accumulation of Photosynthetic Material in PlantsEndophytes promote the accumulation of photosynthesis-related substances, increaseplant nutrient intake, and induce the synthesis of secondary metabolites. More than 90%Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 7 of 23of plant dry matter comes from the carbon ﬁxation reaction of photosynthesis, and theorganic matter assimilated by photosynthesis is the material basis for the formation of plantmetabolites. Therefore, improving the efﬁciency of the utilization of light energy by plantsis an important way to improve crop yield [ 65]. As reliable partners of plants, endophytesplay an important role in improving the photosynthetic efﬁciency of plants [ 66] (Table 1). Itwas found that the water utilization rate of rice inoculated with endophytic fungi increasedsigniﬁcantly and was positively correlated with daylight integration [ 61]. In addition, whennicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-dependent dehydrogenase wasintroduced into cyanobacteria, cell growth was signiﬁcantly accelerated, photosyntheticefﬁciency was increased by approximately 50%, and cell activity increased. It was furtherfound that the light saturation point of the modiﬁed cyanobacteria doubled, indicatingthat they could tolerate higher light intensity, which is important for adapting to drasticchanges in light intensity in nature [ 67]. Therefore, we speculate that when an endophyteforms a symbiotic relationship with a plant, the endophyte changes the absorption ofexternal substances, such as water molecules and inorganic salts, by the plant. Additionally,when the plant body is enriched with nutrients, the endophyte rapidly uses the requiredsubstances to form a large amount of NADPH and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to supplyphotosynthetic material to the plant body, which improves the photosynthetic efﬁciencyof the plant body, accelerates the enrichment of nutrients needed for growth, and thusimproves the rapid accumulation of secondary metabolites.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 8 of 23Table 1. Endophytes affect the accumulation of photosynthetic components in the host.Microbial Classiﬁcation Endophytic Strains Sources Changes in Matter Functions ReferenceEndophytic fungiCystobasidiales and,ChaetothyrialesUlmus minor Mill. Antioxidant enzymes and AuxinPromote the growth to rhizome andadjust the resistance of Dutch elmdisease (DED) disease in Ulmus .[68]Saccharomyces cerevisiae ,Zygosaccharomyces bailii , andSaccharomyces kudriavzevii .Tobacco(3-indoleacetic acid) IAA, andelevated chlorophyll levels.Promote the growth anddevelopment of tobacco and diseaseresistance.[69]Alternaria sorghi and,Penicillium communePhaseolus vulgaris L.Photosynthetic pigments,carbohydrate, and proteincontents.Promote the growth and biomassaccumulation of common legumes.[70]Penicillium brevicompactumand, P . chrysogenumTomato andLettuceNutrients and Na+contents, netphotosynthesis, water useefﬁciency.Improve the survival rate andmaterial accumulation of plantsunder adverse environment.[71]Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiand Dark septate endophytes(DSE)Reed Antioxidant enzymesImprove the growth, nutrientcontent, and photosynthesis ofPhragmitesaustralis .[72]Gilmaniella sp. AL12 Atractylodes lancea TerpenoidImprove photosynthesis andbiomass synthesis.[73]Cercospora Tricyrtis macropodaAmino acids, organic acids,lipids.Improve photosynthesis andbiomass synthesis.[74]Endophytic bacteria Enterobacter sp. MN17 Pisum sativum Protein, fat, ﬁber, and ashImprove photosynthesis efﬁciencyand cadmium (Cd) pollution.[75]Bacillus altitudinis HNH7 andBacillus velezensis HNH9Cotton IAA Promote the growth of cotton plants [76]Bacillus megaterium ZS-3 Arabidopsis thalianaChlorophyll (Chl) content andcarotenoid contentPromote plant growth insalt-stressed environments.[77]Bacillus subtilis Phaseolus vulgaris L. Chl a and Chl b, lignin.Promote plant growth and stresstolerance.[78]Bacillus thuringiensis and,Brevibacillus agriPhaseolus vulgaris L.Photosynthetic pigments,carbohydrate, and proteincontents.Promote the growth and biomassaccumulation of common legumes.[70]Burkholderia ,Pseudomonasand, AzospirillumNo dataShoot biomass, relative watercontent, sugar, and prolineconcentrations.Improve the cold resistance of plantsand regulate their growth.[79]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 9 of 233.2. Endophytes Affect the Expression of Genes Related to Plant Secondary MetabolitesEndophytes regulate genes related to the synthesis of secondary metabolites by plantcells through their signal transduction pathways. Endophytes also change the rate andintensity of the expression of these genes and induce the production and accumulation ofcorresponding secondary metabolites in plants (Table 2). The results showed that the levelsof nutrients (N, P , K, Ca, Mg, Mn, Fe, Cu, and Zn) and related quality parameters (polysac-charide, total soluble protein, tea polyphenols, catechin, total ﬂavonoids, and theobromine)were signiﬁcantly increased by inoculating tea plants with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi(AMF). In addition, the enzyme-encoding genes CsAPX ,CsTCS1 ,CsP AL ,CsC4H ,CsF3H ,and CsDFR showed the same trend as their corresponding quality parameters, indicatingthat AMF could promote the synthesis of secondary metabolites by upregulating the expres-sion of related genes, thus affecting tea quality [42]. Other results showed that the culturebiomass of Euphorbia ofﬁcinalis was increased by 19.35% after treatment with an elicitorfrom the endophytic fungus Fusarium oxysporum , while the levels of isoﬂavin and diphenolwere 5.81 times and 3.56 times those in the control, respectively. The activity of 1-deoxy-D-xylosulfos-5-phosphate synthetase (the key enzyme for the biosynthesis of isoﬂuoromycin)was not signiﬁcantly improved, while the activity of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzymeA reductase (the key enzyme for phenol) was 1.67 times higher than that in the control [ 60].In addition, the total levels of nine monomeric saponins in 1- to 4-year-old ginseng treatedwith Bacillus polymyxis spraying and root irrigation were 36.83%, 44.52%, 67.96%, and79.44% higher than those in the control from the same year. At the same time, cocultureofB. polymyxis and ginseng signiﬁcantly increased the levels of 12 kinds of ginsenosidemonomers, especially the levels of the rare ginsenosides CK and protopanaxadiol, whichincreased by 1.38- and 7.78-fold, respectively [80,81].Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 10 of 23Table 2. Endophytes affect the expression of plant-related genes.Microbial Classiﬁcation Endophytic Strains Sources Differences in Gene Expression Functions ReferenceEndophytic fungiPenicillium brevicompactum and, P .chrysogenumTomato and Lettuce Enhanced expression of the NHX1 gene.Improved sequestration of Na+in vacuolesis suggested by the upregulation of theexpression of vacuolar NHX1 Na+/H+antiporters.[71]Gilmaniella sp. AL12 Atractylodes lanceaGenes and proteins related to primarymetabolism (carbon ﬁxation, carbohydratemetabolism, and energy metabolism) tended tobe upregulated.Improved photosynthesis and biomasssynthesis.[73]Paecilomyces variotii Arabidopsis thaliana Enhanced the expression of IAA related genes.The reactive ROS production promotedplant growth, yield, and quality parameters,and increased the absorption of nitrogenfrom the plant.[82]Biscogniauxia sp. and Didymellasp.Vitis amurensis RuprActivation of phenylalanine ammonialyase(P AL) and stilbene synthase ( STS) geneexpression.Stimulated the production of stilbenes. [83]Serendipita indica and SerendipitaherbamansSolanum lycopersicumSPS-A1 gene expression and SWEET11bexpression.Sucrose resynthesis in roots. [84]Pochonia chlamydosporia TomatoExpression changes of P AL,PIN II ,PR1 andLOX D.Activated plant defense response andimproved survival ability.[85]Endophytic bacteriaBacillus altitudinis HNH7 andBacillus velezensis HNH9CottonUpregulated the expression of growth-linkedgenes, EXP6 ,ARF1 ,ARF18 ,IAA9 ,CKX6, andGID1b , and downregulated ERF and ERF17 .Promoted the growth of cotton plants. [76]Enterobacter hormaechei H2A3 andH5A2.Stevia rebaudianaThe increase in the transcript levels of the KO,KAH, UGT74G1 , and UGT76G1 genes.Increased steviol glycosides (SG) synthesis,ﬂavonoid content, and ﬂavonoidaccumulation.[86]Pseudomonas Cotton Downregulated GhCAX3 expression.Increased intracellular calcium ion (Ca2+),hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2), and nitric oxide(NO) contents. The coordinated regulationof Ca2+, H2O2, and NO enhanced cottonresistance to Verticillium wilt.[87]Bacillus circulans GN03 CottonUpregulated the expression of phytohormonesynthesis-related genes ( EDS1 ,AOC1 ,BES1 ,and GA20ox ), auxin transporter gene ( Aux1) ,and disease-resistance genes ( NPR1 and PR1).Enhanced growth promotion as well asdisease resistance.[88]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 11 of 233.3. Compound Formation and Genetic Material Transfer in Endophytes and PlantsTransfer of compounds or genetic material occurs between endophytes and hosts(Table 3). Phomopsis sp., an endophytic fungus isolated from orchids in northern Ecuador,secretes the volatile organic compounds junienes, which are found only in higher plants [ 89].The roots of liquorice plants colonized with Bacillus pumilus showed increased levels of totalﬂavonoids, total polysaccharides, and glycyrrhizic acid. After inoculation with B. pumilus ,the expression levels of HMGR ,SQS , and b-AS, the key enzymes of glycyrrhizin synthesis,were signiﬁcantly increased. These results indicated that B. pumilus could promote thegrowth of Ural hay by modifying the accumulation of antioxidants and increasing theglycyrrhizin content by changing the expression of key enzymes [ 90]. In addition, a largenumber of bacteria, such as Lysinibacillus fusiformis ,Bacillus megaterium ,B. lichenifera ,B.pumilus ,Brevibacterium halotolerans ,Achromobacter xylosoxidans and Pseudomonas putida , wereisolated from the roots of the halophyte Prosopis strombulifera in the Khewra salt region ofPakistan. The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) was widely present in these isolates [ 91].Researchers isolated the strain Kocuria turfanensis 2M4 from the rhizosphere of salt-tolerantplants. This strain exhibited IAA production, phosphorus solubilization, and ferrophilia.In conclusion, the same or similar secondary metabolites were produced when endophytesinteracted with plants, which suggested that compounds and even genetic material mightbe transferred between them during symbiosis.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 12 of 23Table 3. Endophytes produce the same or similar secondary metabolites as the host plant.MicrobialClassiﬁcationEndophytic Strains Sources The Same or Similar Secondary Metabolites Functions ReferenceEndophytic fungi Pyricularia oryza Rice Melanin, nectriapyrones, tenuazonic acid.It can effectively prevent plant diseases andpests.[92]Eupenicillium parvum Azadirachta indica Azadirachtin A and B.Having antifeedant and insectgrowth-regulating properties.[93]Pestalotiopsis ﬁci Camellia sinensisPolyketide, nonribosomal peptides,alkaloids, and terpenes.Promotes the accumulation of plant activeingredients and plant growth.[94]T. asperellum ,T. brevicompactum ,T. koningiopsis , andT. longibrachiatumVinca major ,Vinca herbacea , andVinca minorAlcohols, esters, pyrones (lactones), acids,furanes, and lipids.Antibacterial and cytotoxic activities and canpromote plant growth.[95]Endophytic bacteria Bacterial strain Bvel1 GrapeIturin A2, surfactin-C13 and -C15,oxydifﬁcidin, L-dihydroanticapsin, and azelaicacid.Antifungal activity; promotes wound healingin plants.[96]Pseudomonas ,Xanthomonas ,Variovorax ,Bacillus ,Pantoea , andStenotrophomonasAlkanna tinctoria Pectinase and cellulaseIt has antibacterial and antitumor properties,promoting wound healing and plant growth.[97]Acinetobacter baumannii Capsicum annuum L.Phenols, carboxylic acids, aromaticheterocyclic compounds, ketones, aromaticesters, aromatic benzenes, and alkenes.Antioxidation; promotes plant growth. [98]Bacillus atrophaeus andBacillus mojavensisGlycyrrhiza uralensis1,2-benzenedicarboxylic acid, bis(2-methylpropyl) ester; methyl ester;9-octadecenoic acid,; and decanedioic acid,bis(2-ethylhexyl) ester.Resistance to Verticillium wilt disease andother phytopathogens.[99]Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens ALEB7B Atractylodes lancea IAAIt triggers the oxidation burst, stimulates theconversion of terpene hydrocarbon scaffoldsinto active components containing oxygensesquiterpenes, and promotes theaccumulation of plant biomass and plantgrowth.[100]Microbacterium and Burkholderia Coptis teeta BerberineEnhances plant nutrient absorption, promotesgrowth, prevents pathogen damage.[101]Bacillus subtilis LB5 Chuanxiong Rhizoma LigustrazinePromotes plant growth and biomass synthesis.Simultaneously produced metabolites cantreat ischemic vascular-related diseases.[102]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 13 of 233.4. Synthesis of Unique Secondary Metabolites by Endophytes Affects Plant Material SynthesisPathwaysEndophytes can synthesize compounds that the host cannot synthesize, or can onlysynthesize small amounts, changing the method of metabolite synthesis in the host and af-fecting metabolite levels. Sphingomonas melonis , an endophytic bacterium found in rice, con-fers resistance to disease-prone phenotypes by producing anthranilic acid. When Burkholde-ria plantarii infects rice, S. melonis secretes the small extracellular signaling molecule am-monia acetic acid to coordinate the host response and then interferes with the regulationof the RpoS transcriptional cascade that is dependent on the virulence factor biosynthesispathway of B. plantarii . This prevents B. plantarii infection and promotes the accumula-tion of plant secondary metabolites [ 103]. By comparing the volatile substances of mintseedlings without fungi and those infected with endophytic fungi, signiﬁcant differencesin the components of mint roots, stems, and leaves, and even new compounds were foundin mint infected with fungi [ 63]. In addition, Peng [ 104] screened an endophytic funguscapable of transforming curcumin from turmeric rhizomes. The conversion products weredemethylcurcumin and dimethylcurcumin. Demethylcurcumin has higher antioxidant andanti-inﬂammatory activities than curcumin. Fu [ 105] screened four endophytes capableof transforming ursolic acid from the stems and leaves of the medicinal plant Huperziaserrata . These endophytes enhanced the production of ursolic acid. Denise [ 106] used anendophytic bacterium of the genus Anthracis to oxidize betulinic acid and transform it.This oxidation reaction is similar to the metabolic pathway of betulinic acid in mammals,providing a new method for studying this metabolic pathway in plants.4. Progress in Research on Endophytes Acting on Secondary Metabolites in Plants4.1. Construction of the SynComs Model for Endophyte–Plant InteractionsMicroorganisms rarely exist alone, and there is a positive correlation between speciesdiversity and community productivity in nature. The ubiquity of these microbial communi-ties in nature highlights the possible advantages of endophytic strains in coculture [ 107].However, the study of plant secondary metabolites relying on only the naturally formed en-dophyte community is becoming increasingly limited. Researchers have gradually shiftedtheir focus to identifying methods to better study the occurrence and accumulation ofsecondary metabolites under the interaction between plants and endophytes. SynComs is aprocess of artiﬁcially mixing different microorganisms with distinct species and functionsin certain proportions under certain conditions to create a stable microbial community withdistinct functions. With the development and implementation of SynComs, research onplants and endophytes advanced further (Figure 4). SynComs consider multiple typesof interactions and the functions of different microorganisms under certain conditions todetermine the proportion of mixed, stable, and functional microbial communities that canpromote plant growth, nutrient uptake, and stress resistance. These interactions play animportant role in such aspects of secondary metabolite production and can be applied toindustrial production.SynComs were ﬁrst reported in the early 21st century. Saccharomyces cerevisiae wasgenetically modiﬁed through genetic hybridization, and two nonmating strains, R and Y,with different metabolic abilities were obtained. R synthesized lysine but needed adeninefor growth, and Y synthesized adenine but needed lysine for growth [ 108].A stable andsustained cooperative relationship was formed after coculture of the two strains, which laid afoundation for the development of SynComs in the future. Further studies showed that internaland external factors played an important role in the stability of the SynComs [ 109–112].In2014, researchers developed the concept of SynComs and deﬁned SynComs as a coculturesystem established by two or more microorganisms in a substrate with a clear composi-tion [ 113]. Subsequently, the importance of host genotypes and core microorganisms forthe construction of SynComs was further revealed [ 114–116]. The above research resultsgreatly promoted the development of SynComs technology and laid a solid foundation forthe use of SynComs technology to reveal the function of plant endophyte communities andInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 14 of 23the interaction mechanisms with plants. The SynCom construction process is regulated bymultiple factors, such as the microorganisms themselves, plant hosts, and environment,among which the effects of microorganisms themselves include interspecies interactions,metabolism, and spatial structures [ 117]. Therefore, the construction of SynComs requirescomprehensive consideration of the interactions among species, metabolism, and spatialstructures to ensure the stability of SynComs.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  16 of 26    Figure 4. Construction of SynComs.  SynComs  with specific functions are formed by the recombina-tion of microorganisms with different functions, depending on the needs of the plant. Functional analysis of the recombinant microbial community was performed using an omics approach. Core microbial commu nities that can play a stable and efficient role in plant growth and development, synthesis, and accumulation of secondary metabolites can be screened for commercial mass produc-tion. The function and composition of the SynComs were also optimized through p ractice.  SynComs were first reported in the early 21st century. Saccharomyces cerevisiae  was genetically modified through genetic hybridization, and two nonmating strains, R and Y, with different metabolic abilities were obtained. R synthesized lysine but needed adenine for growth, and Y synthesized adenine but needed lysine for growth [108] . A stable and sustained cooperative relationship was formed after coculture of the two strains, which laid a foundation for the development of SynComs in the future. Fu rther studies showed that internal and external factors played an important role in the stability of the SynComs [109–112]. In 2014, researchers developed the concept of SynComs and defined SynComs as a coculture system established by two or more microorga nisms in a substrate with a clear composition [113] . Subsequently, the importance of host genotypes and core micro-organisms for the construction of SynComs was further revealed [114–116]. The above research results greatly promoted the development of SynCo ms technology and laid a solid foundation for the use of SynComs technology to reveal the function of plant endo-phyte communities and the interaction mechanisms with plants. The SynCom construc-tion process is regulated by multiple factors, such as the micr oorganisms themselves, plant hosts, and environment, among which the effects of microorganisms themselves in-clude interspecies interactions, metabolism, and spatial structures [117] . Therefore, the construction of SynComs requires comprehensive considerati on of the interactions among species, metabolism, and spatial structures to ensure the stability of SynComs.  4.2. Application of Omics to Elucidate the Mechanisms by which Endophytes Promote the Occur-rence and Accumulation of Plant Secondary Metabolites  Endophytes promote the synthesis of plant secondary metabolites in various com-plex ways, and traditional research methods have been insufficient for studying second-ary metabolites through these relationships [118] . Studies on plant secondary me tabolites have focused on their genetics, responses to stress, metabolism , and structures (Figure 5). Among existing studies and analyses, the main research methods used to explore the in-teractions between endophytes and plants include next -generation sequ encing (NGS) and Figure 4. Construction of SynComs. SynComs with speciﬁc functions are formed by the recombina-tion of microorganisms with different functions, depending on the needs of the plant. Functionalanalysis of the recombinant microbial community was performed using an omics approach. Coremicrobial communities that can play a stable and efﬁcient role in plant growth and development, syn-thesis, and accumulation of secondary metabolites can be screened for commercial mass production.The function and composition of the SynComs were also optimized through practice.4.2. Application of Omics to Elucidate the Mechanisms by Which Endophytes Promote theOccurrence and Accumulation of Plant Secondary MetabolitesEndophytes promote the synthesis of plant secondary metabolites in various complexways, and traditional research methods have been insufﬁcient for studying secondarymetabolites through these relationships [ 118]. Studies on plant secondary metaboliteshave focused on their genetics, responses to stress, metabolism, and structures (Figure 5).Among existing studies and analyses, the main research methods used to explore theinteractions between endophytes and plants include next-generation sequencing (NGS)and omics analysis. To date, NGS has been widely used to study the diversity of microbialcommunities in various environments [ 119–121]. In addition, this technology can alsobe used for large-scale genome sequencing [ 119,122], gene expression analysis [ 123,124],the identiﬁcation of noncoding small RNAs [ 125,126], the screening of transcription factortarget genes [ 127,128], and DNA methylation [ 129,130]. However, NGS has limitations, suchas the possible detection of plant DNA when studying microbial communities interactingwith plants, thereby reducing the amount of data acquired for microbes. Thus, to avoidinterference with plant sequences, we can increase the speciﬁcity of the primers or improvethe ability of high-throughput data acquisition to obtain additional information. Withtechnological advancement, NGS will gradually improve. Currently, omics, as an effectivecomplement to this technique, plays an essential role in the analysis of plant secondaryInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 15 of 23metabolites, particularly the joint effect of multiomics as a directional indicator to studythe interactions between endophytes and plants.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 , 24, x FOR PEER REVIEW  17 of 26   omics  analysis. To date, NGS has been widely used to study the diversity of microbial communities in various environments [119–121]. In addition, this technology can also be used for large -scale genome sequencing [119,122] , gene expression  analysis [123,124] , the identification of noncoding small RNAs [125,126] , the screening of transcription factor tar-get genes [127,128] , and DNA methylation [129,130] . However, NGS has limitations, such as the possible detection of plant DNA when studying microbial communities interacting with plants, thereby reducing the amount of data acquired for microbes. Thus, to avoid interference with plant sequences, we can increase the specificity of the primers or im-prove the ability of high -throughput data acquis ition to obtain additional information. With technological advancement, NGS will gradually improve. Currently, omics, as an effective complement to this technique, plays an essential role in the analysis of plant sec-ondary metabolites, particularly the joi nt effect of multiomics as a directional indicator to study the interactions between endophytes and plants.   Figure 5. Visualization of the popular research topics related to plant secondary metabolites in the past five years. VOSviewer software was used to analyze the titles and abstracts of 12745 articles in the Web of Science database from the past five years (2018.01.01 –2022.10.11). The results showed that the current popular research topics mainly focus on three aspects of plant genes: type, stress, and metabolism. The retrieval conditions used in the database are (ALL=(Secondary metabolites)) AND ALL=(plant), the export format is a TAB delimited file, and the record content is “Full record and referenced references”. The lowest frequency of keywords s creened by VOSviewer software was set as 15, and 4523 keywords were screened in total. Among 2714 keywords with correlations greater than or equal to 60%, 351 uninformative keywords were manually removed, and 2363 key-words were finally used for visual anal ysis.  To date, the application of multiomic technology in studies on secondary metabolism to determine the interactions between plants and endophytes is becoming more wide-spread [128,131] . In research, multomics generally takes the form of metaomics, which  mainly includes metagenomics, macrotranscriptomics, and macroproteomics. By combin-ing metagenomic, macrotranscriptomic, and macroproteomic methods, metaomics can be used to not only predict the potential functions of endophytic communities , but also  to determine the functional activity of endophytic communities [40,132] . At the same time, a Figure 5. Visualization of the popular research topics related to plant secondary metabolites in thepast ﬁve years. VOSviewer software was used to analyze the titles and abstracts of 12,745 articlesin the Web of Science database from the past ﬁve years (1 January 2018–11 October 2022). Theresults showed that the current popular research topics mainly focus on three aspects of plant genes:type, stress, and metabolism. The retrieval conditions used in the database are (ALL = (Secondarymetabolites)) AND ALL = (plant), the export format is a TAB delimited ﬁle, and the record content is“Full record and referenced references”. The lowest frequency of keywords screened by VOSviewersoftware was set as 15, and 4523 keywords were screened in total. Among 2714 keywords withcorrelations greater than or equal to 60%, 351 uninformative keywords were manually removed, and2363 keywords were ﬁnally used for visual analysis.To date, the application of multiomic technology in studies on secondary metabolism to de-termine the interactions between plants and endophytes is becoming more widespread [ 128,131].In research, multomics generally takes the form of metaomics, which mainly includesmetagenomics, macrotranscriptomics, and macroproteomics. By combining metagenomic,macrotranscriptomic, and macroproteomic methods, metaomics can be used to not only pre-dict the potential functions of endophytic communities, but also to determine the functionalactivity of endophytic communities [ 40,132]. At the same time, a more comprehensiveunderstanding of endophytic communities can be promoted by determining the intraspe-ciﬁc relationships of communities, understanding nutrient competition between plants andendophytes, and examining community development [ 133,134]. In recent years, metaomicshas been the focus and frontier of research in the ﬁeld of plant–endophyte interactions,with remarkable results. With the development of whole-metagenome shotgun (WMS)sequencing technology, research using metaomics has changed from high-depth sequenc-ing, which can only reﬂect the characteristics of one sample, to large-sample sequencing,which can reﬂect the differences between different samples. Studies have shifted fromInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 16 of 23sample sequencing at one time point to dynamic process sequencing in response to differentexternal environments [132,135].However, the current metaomic research methods still have some shortcomings andinadequacies. Metaomic analysis of plant samples, while potentially capable of representingall the diversity in gene sequence and function, has not been able to elucidate all thegenes and functions of a single microorganism, and this has presented great difﬁculties inexploring the functions of plant endophytes. Fortunately, modern methods such as single-cell genome sequencing (SCGS) have been slowly developed [ 136]. Therefore, we shouldlook forward to the development of SCGS and alternative techniques to address thesedifﬁcult issues in studying the interaction between plants and endophytes and to furtherelucidate the mechanisms by which endophytes facilitate the occurrence and accumulationof secondary metabolites in plants.4.3. Endophytes Advance the Application of Plant SMsEndophytes are ideal resources for facilitating the formation and accumulation ofsecondary metabolites in plants. Earth is a large biological resource bank, with approxi-mately 270,000 plant species, and the number of endophytes that can be isolated exceedsone million based on the calculation that there are approximately four distinct endophytesin each plant [ 137]. The study of endophytes has opened up new areas for research intothe application of microorganisms. The current work focuses on the use of screening topromote the formation and accumulation of plant secondary metabolites in host strains andthe transformation of strains to improve the breeding process, industrialized production,and production capacity, as well as to improve the direct application of plant secondarymetabolites in food, agriculture, and other areas [ 138]. In addition, various plant secondarymetabolites have the potential to be indirectly exploited as biopesticides, pharmaceuticals,or pharmaceutical precursors, and these secondary metabolites possess a wide range of ac-tivities, including antimicrobial, antioxidant, and biocontrol activities [ 18,139]. At the sametime, the interaction between endophytes and plants produces new bioactive secondarymetabolites, providing feasible opportunities for the development of improved drugs andmore effective ways for humans to cure diseases in the future [ 140]. This result clearlyshows that using endophytes promotes the synthesis of host plant secondary metabolitesand the generation of new active substances. This solves the issues with using traditionalmethods involving the long growth cycle and restrictions on the active ingredients neededto produce plant resources. This method is expected to provide a new way to quicklyproduce active substances in plants and will have great application value and developmentpotential.5. ExpectationEndophytes are an important part of the plant microecosystem. They have a specialsymbiotic and metabolic relationship with host plants and are a potential resource poolfor the synthesis and accumulation of plant secondary metabolites. At present, researchon endophytic bacteria in plants is still in its infancy, and only some plant groups havebeen studied. The existing research is more focused on endophytes as a resource, and theirvarious novel structures and bioactive secondary metabolites have been discussed. Asa result, most research on the substances in host plants has been conﬁned to those thatare the same or similar to active substances in endophytes. Thus, the construction of asystemic database of endophytes and plants is not possible due to the lack of informationand the need for an endophyte resource platform. Endophytes play an important rolein the development of plant secondary metabolites and in promoting the synthesis andaccumulation of plant secondary metabolites. Many bioactive plant secondary metabolitesare transformed by endophytes to induce plant synthesis and accumulation. However, thestructure, dynamics, and functions of plant endophytic colonies, the factors inﬂuencingthe interaction between plant secondary metabolites and endophytic colonies, the spatialpatterns and signal transduction pathways, and the speciﬁc mechanism and molecularInt. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 17 of 23basis of the regulation of the biosynthesis of plant secondary metabolites by endophytesstill need to be further explored. In addition, the fundamental genetic control of endophytesin plants and how they are affected by changes in other microbiota and environmentalconditions also require attention.In fact, although researchers have found valuable active substances in the study ofsome endophytes promoting plant secondary metabolites, many problems have yet to beaddressed in related research and practical applications. Most plant endophytes have notbeen effectively isolated, and the molecular mechanisms and effects of plant endophytesare not clear. In addition, endophytes cannot be used in practice for biocontrol, and it is notclear what kind of community they need in different growth stages and when they act onplants. Therefore, further exploration of the interaction between endophytes and plantsis urgently needed to understand the origin and mechanism of action of endophytes inplants.Interdisciplinary research in plant physiology, molecular biology, genetics, microbiol-ogy, and many other disciplines has been formed in many studies. With the help of analyti-cal tools such as single-cell genomics and specialized plant metabolomics, we can focuson identifying gene clusters of secondary metabolite biosynthetic pathways within plantsthrough whole-genome sequences to investigate the resources of novel endophytes withsustainable secondary metabolite synthesis and to reveal the molecular signals and tran-scription factors that regulate the expression of secondary metabolic biosynthesis-relatedgene clusters. These data can be used to explore the microbial communities coevolvingwith plants as they grow and develop and to provide a new theoretical basis and researchperspective for revealing the regulation of plant growth and development by endophytesthrough secondary metabolites and the industrialization of synthetic communities. Inthe future, in-depth research on plant endophytes and their applications in various ﬁeldswill bring more beneﬁts to humans and will have broad prospects for development andapplication.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Z.L., K.X., W.W., L.L. and D.X.; writing—original draftpreparation, Z.L., K.X., W.W., L.L. and D.X.; writing—review and editing, Z.L., K.X., W.W., L.L. andD.X.; visualization, Z.L. and K.X.; supervision, W.W.; funding acquisition, L.L. and D.X. All authorshave read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research was funded by the National Natural Science Foundation of China, projectnumbers 32260089, 31960074; Postgraduate Teaching Reform Project of Zunyi Medical University,project number ZYK105; Innovation and Entrepreneurship Education of Guizhou Ordinary Under-graduate Colleges, project number 2022SCJZW10; Joint biding project of Zunyi Science & TechnologyDepartment and Zunyi Medical University, project number No. ZSKHHZ [2020]; The Science andTechnology Department Foundation of Guizhou Province of China, project number No. QKPTRC[2019]-027.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing isnot applicable to this article.Acknowledgments: Illustrations 1–4 in the text were created with Microsoft PowerPoint, and Illus-tration 5 was created with VOSviewer.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. The funders had no role in the designof the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; orin the decision to publish the results.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 18 of 23References1. Nesme, J.; Simonet, P . The soil resistome: A critical review on antibiotic resistance origins, ecology and dissemination potential intelluric bacteria. Environ. Microbiol. 2015 ,17, 913–930. [CrossRef] [PubMed]2. Donadio, S.; Monciardini, P .; Alduina, R.; Mazza, P .; Chiocchini, C.; Cavaletti, L.; Sosio, M.; Puglia, A.M. Microbial technologiesfor the discovery of novel bioactive metabolites. J. Biotechnol. 2002 ,99, 187–198. [CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Gouda, S.; Das, G.; Sen, S.K.; Shin, H.S.; Patra, J.K. Endophytes: A Treasure House of Bioactive Compounds of MedicinalImportance. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1538. [CrossRef] [PubMed]4. Debbab, A.; Aly, A.H.; Proksch, P . Bioactive secondary metabolites from endophytes and associated marine derived fungi. FungalDivers. 2011 ,49, 1–12. [CrossRef]5. Rai, N.; Keshri, P .K.; Verma, A.; Kamble, S.C.; Mishra, P .; Barik, S.; Singh, S.K.; Gautam, V . Plant associated fungal endophytes asa source of natural bioactive compounds. Mycology 2021 ,12, 139–159. [CrossRef]6. Preethi, K.; Manon-Mani, V .; Lavanya, N. Endophytic Fungi: A Potential Source of Bioactive Compounds for Commercial and TherapeuticApplications ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2021; pp. 247–272. [CrossRef]7. Isah, T. Stress and defense responses in plant secondary metabolites production. Biol. Res. 2019 ,52, 39. [CrossRef]8. Kubala, S.; Garnczarska, M.; Wojtyla, Ł.; Clippe, A.; Kosmala, A.; ˙Zmie ´ nko, A.; Lutts, S.; Quinet, M. Deciphering priming-inducedimprovement of rapeseed ( Brassica napus L.) germination through an integrated transcriptomic and proteomic approach. PlantSci.2015 ,231, 94–113. [CrossRef]9. Nini, T.; Fang, L.; Pandi, W.; Xiaobo, Z.; Xiaofei, L.; Gang, W. The molecular basis of glandular trichome development andsecondary metabolism in plants. Plant Gene 2017 ,12, 1–12. [CrossRef]10. Jin, Z.; Gao, L.; Zhang, L.; Liu, T.; Yu, F.; Zhang, Z.; Guo, Q.; Wang, B. Antimicrobial activity of saponins produced by two novelendophytic fungi from Panax notoginseng .Nat. Prod. Res. 2017 ,31, 2700–2703. [CrossRef]11. Wei, G.; Dong, L.; Yang, J.; Zhang, L.; Xu, J.; Yang, F.; Cheng, R.; Xu, R.; Chen, S. Integrated metabolomic and transcriptomicanalyses revealed the distribution of saponins in Panax notoginseng .Acta Pharm. Sin. B 2018 ,8, 458–465. [CrossRef]12. Xie, J.; Wu, Y.Y.; Zhang, T.Y.; Zhang, M.Y.; Peng, F.; Lin, B.; Zhang, Y.X. New antimicrobial compounds produced by endophyticPenicillium janthinellum isolated from Panax notoginseng as potential inhibitors of FtsZ. Fitoterapia 2018 ,131, 35–43. [CrossRef][PubMed]13. Xie, J.; Wu, Y.Y.; Zhang, T.Y.; Zhang, M.Y. New and bioactive natural products from an endophyte of Panax notoginseng .RSC Adv.2017 ,7, 38100–38109. [CrossRef]14. Bitchagno, G.T.M.; El-Bouhssini, M.; Mahdi, I.; Ward, J.L.; Sobeh, M. Toward the Allelopathy of Peganum sp. and Related ChemicalConstituents in Agriculture. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,12, 796103. [CrossRef]15. Li, Y.; Kong, D.; Fu, Y.; Sussman, M.R.; Wu, H. The effect of developmental and environmental factors on secondary metabolitesin medicinal plants. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,148, 80–89. [CrossRef] [PubMed]16. Liu, W.; Feng, Y.; Yu, S.; Fan, Z.; Li, X.; Li, J.; Yin, H. The Flavonoid Biosynthesis Network in Plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 12824.[CrossRef] [PubMed]17. Wawrosch, C.; Zotchev, S.B. Production of bioactive plant secondary metabolites through in vitro technologies-status and outlook.Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2021 ,105, 6649–6668. [CrossRef]18. Singh, D.; Thapa, S.; Mahawar, H.; Kumar, D.; Geat, N.; Singh, S.K. Prospecting potential of endophytes for modulation ofbiosynthesis of therapeutic bioactive secondary metabolites and plant growth promotion of medicinal and aromatic plants.Antonie Leeuwenhoek 2022 ,115, 699–730. [CrossRef]19. Ortega, H.E.; Torres-Mendoza, D.; Caballero, E.Z.; Cubilla-Rios, L. Structurally Uncommon Secondary Metabolites Derived fromEndophytic Fungi. J. Fungi. 2021 ,7, 570. [CrossRef]20. Zheng, R.; Li, S.; Zhang, X.; Zhao, C. Biological Activities of Some New Secondary Metabolites Isolated from Endophytic Fungi:A Review Study. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 959. [CrossRef]21. Banasiak, J.; Jamruszka, T.; Murray, J.D.; Jasi ´ nski, M. A roadmap of plant membrane transporters in arbuscular mycorrhizal andlegume-rhizobium symbioses. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,187, 2071–2091. [CrossRef]22. Andrews, M.; Andrews, M.E. Speciﬁcity in Legume-Rhizobia Symbioses. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2017 ,18, 705. [CrossRef] [PubMed]23. Bziuk, N.; Maccario, L.; Straube, B.; Wehner, G.; Sørensen, S.J.; Schikora, A.; Smalla, K. The treasure inside barley seeds: Microbialdiversity and plant beneﬁcial bacteria. Environ. Microbiome 2021 ,16, 20. [CrossRef] [PubMed]24. Delaux, P .M.; Schornack, S. Plant evolution driven by interactions with symbiotic and pathogenic microbes. Science 2021 ,371,eaba6605. [CrossRef]25. Jia, M.; Chen, L.; Xin, H.L.; Zheng, C.J.; Rahman, K.; Han, T.; Qin, L.P . A Friendly Relationship between Endophytic Fungi andMedicinal Plants: A Systematic Review. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 906. [CrossRef] [PubMed]26. Bai, T.; Guo, L.; Xu, M.; Tian, L. Structural Diversity of Photosystem I and Its Light-Harvesting System in Eukaryotic Algae andPlants. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 781035. [CrossRef]27. Radhakrishnan, G.V .; Keller, J.; Rich, M.K.; Verni é, T.; Mbadinga-Mbadinga, D.L.; Vigneron, N.; Cottret, L.; Clemente, H.S.;Libourel, C.; Cheema, J.; et al. An ancestral signalling pathway is conserved in intracellular symbioses-forming plant lineages.Nat. Plants. 2020 ,6, 280–289. [CrossRef]28. Yan, Q.; Zhao, L.; Wang, W.; Pi, X.; Han, G.; Wang, J.; Cheng, L.; He, Y.K.; Kuang, T.; Qin, X.; et al. Antenna arrangement andenergy-transfer pathways of PSI-LHCI from the moss Physcomitrella patens. Cell Discov. 2021 ,7, 10. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 19 of 2329. Escudero-Martinez, C.; Bulgarelli, D. Tracing the evolutionary routes of plant-microbiota interactions. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2019 ,49, 34–40. [CrossRef]30. Lambers, H.; Mougel, C.; Jaillard, B.; Hinsinger, P . Plant-microbe-soil interactions in the rhizosphere: An evolutionary perspective.Plant Soil. 2009 ,321, 83–115. [CrossRef]31. Fang, Z.J.; Zhang, X.X.; Ma, L.A. Research progress on plant endophytes. J. Yangtze Univ. (Nat. Sci. Ed.) 2018 ,15, 41–45. [CrossRef]32. Koza, N.A.; Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola, O.O.; Kappo, A.P . Microorganisms in Plant Growth and Development: Roles in AbioticStress Tolerance and Secondary Metabolites Secretion. Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528. [CrossRef] [PubMed]33. Ozturk, M.; Turkyilmaz-Unal, B.; Garc ía-Caparr ós, P .; Khursheed, A.; Gul, A.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Osmoregulation and its actionsduring the drought stress in plants. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 1321–1335. [CrossRef] [PubMed]34. Kumar, P .; Choudhary, M.; Halder, T.; Prakash, N.R.; Singh, V .; V , V .T.; Sheoran, S.; T, R.K.; Longmei, N.; Rakshit, S.; et al. Salinitystress tolerance and omics approaches: Revisiting the progress and achievements in major cereal crops. Heredity 2022 ,128,497–518. [CrossRef] [PubMed]35. Ding, Y.; Yang, S. Surviving and thriving: How plants perceive and respond to temperature stress. Dev. Cell 2022 ,57, 947–958.[CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O.; Santoyo, G.; Perazzolli, M. The Potential Role of Microbial Biostimulants in the Amelioration ofClimate Change-Associated Abiotic Stresses on Crops. Front. Microbiol. 2022 ,12, 829099. [CrossRef]37. Dong, W.; Zhu, Y.; Chang, H.; Wang, C.; Yang, J.; Shi, J.; Gao, J.; Yang, W.; Lan, L.; Wang, Y.; et al. An SHR-SCR module speciﬁeslegume cortical cell fate to enable nodulation. Nature 2021 ,589, 586–590. [CrossRef]38. Bozsoki, Z.; Gysel, K.; Hansen, S.B.; Lironi, D.; Krönauer, C.; Feng, F.; de Jong, N.; Vinther, M.; Kamble, M.; Thygesen, M.B.; et al.Ligand-recognizing motifs in plant LysM receptors are major determinants of speciﬁcity. Science 2020 ,369, 663–670. [CrossRef]39. Liu, H.; Lin, J.S.; Luo, Z.; Sun, J.; Huang, X.; Yang, Y.; Xu, J.; Wang, Y.F.; Zhang, P .; Oldroyd, G.E.D.; et al. Constitutive activationof a nuclear-localized calcium channel complex in Medicago truncatula. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2022 ,119, e2205920119.[CrossRef]40. Zhang, C.; He, J.; Dai, H.; Wang, G.; Zhang, X.; Wang, C.; Shi, J.; Chen, X.; Wang, D.; Wang, E. Discriminating symbiosis andimmunity signals by receptor competition in rice. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2021 ,118, e2023738118. [CrossRef]41. Mendes, R.; Garbeva, P .; Raaijmakers, J.M. The rhizosphere microbiome: Signiﬁcance of plant beneﬁcial, plant pathogenic, andhuman pathogenic microorganisms. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2013 ,37, 634–663. [CrossRef]42. Ma, R.; Lin, Y.; Ma, T.T. Inﬂuences of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on quality and related gene expression of Liubao tea. JiangsuAgric. Sci. 2022 ,50, 157–163. [CrossRef]43. Yue, J.; Hu, X.; Sun, H.; Yang, Y.; Huang, J. Widespread impact of horizontal gene transfer on plant colonization of land. Nat.Commun. 2012 ,3, 1152. [CrossRef] [PubMed]44. Arnold, B.J.; Huang, I.T.; Hanage, W.P . Horizontal gene transfer and adaptive evolution in bacteria. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2022 ,20,206–218. [CrossRef] [PubMed]45. Chen, X.L.; Jiang, G.F.; Zhong, Z.T. Research Progress of Horizontal Gene Transfer in Rhizobia Evolution. Biotechnol. Bull. 2019 ,35, 18–24. [CrossRef]46. Cordovez, V .; Dini-Andreote, F.; Carri ón, V .J.; Raaijmakers, J.M. Ecology and Evolution of Plant Microbiomes. Annu. Rev.Microbiol. 2019 ,73, 69–88. [CrossRef]47. Howard, M.M.; Bass, E.; Chaut á, A.; Mutyambai, D.; Kessler, A. Integrating plant-to-plant communication and rhizospheremicrobial dynamics: Ecological and evolutionary implications and a call for experimental rigor. ISME J. 2022 ,16, 5–9. [CrossRef]48. Rich, M.K.; Vigneron, N.; Libourel, C.; Keller, J.; Xue, L.; Hajheidar, M.; Radhakrishnan, G.V .; Le Ru, A.; Diop, S.I.; Potente, G.;et al. Lipid exchanges drove the evolution of mutualism during plant terrestrialization. Science 2021 ,372, 864–868. [CrossRef]49. Jiang, Y.; Wang, W.; Xie, Q.; Liu, N.; Liu, L.; Wang, D.; Zhang, X.; Yang, C.; Chen, X.; Tang, D.; et al. Plants transfer lipids to sustaincolonization by mutualistic mycorrhizal and parasitic fungi. Science 2017 ,356, 1172–1175. [CrossRef]50. Pande, A.; Mun, B.G.; Lee, D.S.; Khan, M.; Lee, G.M.; Hussain, A.; Yun, B.W. NO Network for Plant-Microbe CommunicationUnderground: A Review. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 658679. [CrossRef]51. Dudeja, S.S.; Suneja-Madan, P .; Paul, M.; Maheswari, R.; Kothe, E. Bacterial endophytes: Molecular interactions with their hosts. J.Basic Microbiol. 2021 ,61, 475–505. [CrossRef]52. Naing, A.H.; Maung, T.T.; Kim, C.K. The ACC deaminase-producing plant growth-promoting bacteria: Inﬂuences of bacterialstrains and ACC deaminase activities in plant tolerance to abiotic stress. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,173, 1992–2012. [CrossRef] [PubMed]53. Li, F.; He, X.; Tang, M.; Tang, X.; Liu, J.; Yi, Y. Adaptation of plants to high-calcium content kart regions: Possible involvement ofsymbiotic microorganisms and underlying mechanisms. Braz. J. Biol. 2020 ,80, 209–214. [CrossRef] [PubMed]54. Trivedi, P .; Leach, J.E.; Tringe, S.G.; Sa, T.; Singh, B.K. Plant-microbiome interactions: From community assembly to plant health.Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2020 ,18, 607–621. [CrossRef] [PubMed]55. Wang, T.; Guo, J.; Peng, Y.; Lyu, X.; Liu, B.; Sun, S.; Wang, X. Light-induced mobile factors from shoots regulate rhizobium-triggered soybean root nodulation. Science 2021 ,374, 65–71. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Zhao, P .; Zhang, X.; Gong, Y.; Wang, D.; Xu, D.; Wang, N.; Sun, Y.; Gao, L.; Liu, S.S.; Deng, X.W.; et al. Red-light is an environmentaleffector for mutualism between begomovirus and its vector whiteﬂy. PLoS Pathog. 2021 ,17, e1008770. [CrossRef]57. Ying, L.; Xi-Ying, W. The Microbial Transformation of Plant Endophyte on Plant Secondary Metabolites. Nat. Prod. Res. Dev. 2014 ,26, 300–303.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 20 of 2358. Rho, H.; Van-Epps, V .; Wegley, N.; Doty, S.L.; Kim, S.H. Salicaceae Endophytes Modulate Stomatal Behavior and Increase WaterUse Efﬁciency in Rice. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 188. [CrossRef]59. Wong-Bajracharya, J.; Singan, V .R.; Monti, R.; Plett, K.L.; Ng, V .; Grigoriev, I.V .; Martin, F.M.; Anderson, I.C.; Plett, J.M. Theectomycorrhizal fungus Pisolithus microcarpus encodes a microRNA involved in cross-kingdom gene silencing during symbiosis.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2022 ,119, e2103527119. [CrossRef]60. Gao, F.K.; Yong, Y.H.; Dai, C.C. Effects of endophytic fungal elicitor on two kinds of terpenoids production and physiologicalindexes in Euphorbia pekinensis suspension cells. J. Med. Plant Res. 2011 ,5, 4418–4425. [CrossRef]61. Cui, J.L.; Wang, Y.N.; Jiao, J.; Gong, Y.; Wang, J.H.; Wang, M.L. Fungal endophyte-induced salidroside and tyrosol biosynthesiscombined with signal cross-talk and the mechanism of enzyme gene expression in Rhodiola crenulata. Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 12540.[CrossRef]62. Rodriguez, P .A.; Rothballer, M.; Chowdhury, S.P .; Nussbaumer, T.; Gutjahr, C.; Falter-Braun, P . Systems Biology of Plant-Microbiome Interactions. Mol. Plant 2019 ,12, 804–821. [CrossRef] [PubMed]63. Mucciarelli, M.; Camusso, W.; Maffei, M.; Panicco, P .; Bicchi, C. Volatile terpenoids of endophyte-free and infected peppermint(Mentha piperita L.): Chemical partitioning of a symbiosis. Microb. Ecol. 2007 ,54, 685–696. [CrossRef] [PubMed]64. Weisskopf, L.; Schulz, S.; Garbeva, P . Microbial volatile organic compounds in intra-kingdom and inter-kingdom interactions.Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2021 ,19, 391–404. [CrossRef] [PubMed]65. Sheng, Y.Y.; Xu, X.M.; Zhang, Q.H.; Zhang, L.X. Synthetic biology advances for photosynthetic carbon assimilation. Synth. Biol. J.2022 , 1–14. [CrossRef]66. Suryanarayanan, T.S.; Ayesha, M.S.; Shaanker, R.U. Leaf photosynthesis: Do endophytes have a say? Trends Plant Sci. 2022 ,27,968–970. [CrossRef] [PubMed]67. Zhou, J.; Zhang, F.; Meng, H.; Zhang, Y.; Li, Y. Introducing extra NADPH consumption ability signiﬁcantly increases thephotosynthetic efﬁciency and biomass production of cyanobacteria. Metab. Eng. 2016 ,38, 217–227. [CrossRef] [PubMed]68. Martínez-Arias, C.; Sobrino-Plata, J.; Medel, D.; Gil, L.; Mart ín, J.A.; Rodr íguez-Calcerrada, J. Stem endophytes increase rootdevelopment, photosynthesis, and survival of elm plantlets (Ulmus minor Mill.). J. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,261, 153420. [CrossRef][PubMed]69. Petkova, M.; Petrova, S.; Spasova-Apostolova, V .; Naydenov, M. Tobacco Plant Growth-Promoting and Antifungal Activities ofThree Endophytic Yeast Strains. Plants 2022 ,11, 751. [CrossRef]70. Ismail, M.A.; Amin, M.A.; Eid, A.M.; Hassan, S.E.; Mahgoub, H.A.M.; Lashin, I.; Abdelwahab, A.T.; Azab, E.; Gobouri, A.A.;Elkelish, A.; et al. Comparative Study between Exogenously Applied Plant Growth Hormones versus Metabolites of MicrobialEndophytes as Plant Growth-Promoting for Phaseolus vulgaris L.Cells 2021 ,10, 1059. [CrossRef]71. Molina-Montenegro, M.A.; Acuña-Rodr íguez, I.S.; Torres-D íaz, C.; Gundel, P .E.; Dreyer, I. Antarctic root endophytes improvephysiological performance and yield in crops under salt stress by enhanced energy production and Na+ sequestration. Sci. Rep.2020 ,10, 5819. [CrossRef]72. Ban, Y.; Xiao, Z.; Wu, C.; Lv, Y.; Meng, F.; Wang, J.; Xu, Z. The positive effects of inoculation using arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiand/or dark septate endophytes on the puriﬁcation efﬁciency of CuO-nanoparticles-polluted wastewater in constructed wetland.J. Hazard. Mater. 2021 ,416, 126095. [CrossRef] [PubMed]73. Yuan, J.; Zhang, W.; Sun, K.; Tang, M.J.; Chen, P .X.; Li, X.; Dai, C.C. Comparative Transcriptomics and Proteomics of Atractylodeslancea in Response to Endophytic Fungus Gilmaniella sp. AL12 Reveals Regulation in Plant Metabolism. Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10,1208. [CrossRef] [PubMed]74. Wang, Y.; Cheng, H.; Chang, F.; Zhao, L.; Wang, B.; Wan, Y.; Yue, M. Endosphere Microbiome and Metabolic Differences Betweenthe Spots and Green Parts of Tricyrtis macropoda Leaves. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,11, 599829. [CrossRef] [PubMed]75. Naveed, M.; Mustafa, A.; Majeed, S.; Naseem, Z.; Saeed, Q.; Khan, A.; Nawaz, A.; Baig, K.S.; Chen, J.T. Enhancing CadmiumTolerance and Pea Plant Health through Enterobacter sp. MN17 Inoculation Together with Biochar and Gravel Sand. Plants 2020 ,9,530. [CrossRef] [PubMed]76. Hasan, N.; Khan, I.U.; Farzand, A.; Heng, Z.; Moosa, A.; Saleem, M.; Canming, T. Bacillus altitudinis HNH7 and Bacillus velezensisHNH9 promote plant growth through upregulation of growth-promoting genes in upland cotton. J. Appl. Microbiol. 2022 ,132,3812–3824. [CrossRef] [PubMed]77. Shi, L.N.; Lu, L.X.; Ye, J.R.; Shi, H.M. The Endophytic Strain ZS-3 Enhances Salt Tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana by RegulatingPhotosynthesis, Osmotic Stress, and Ion Homeostasis and Inducing Systemic Tolerance. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 820837.[CrossRef]78. Lastochkina, O.; Aliniaeifard, S.; Garshina, D.; Garipova, S.; Pusenkova, L.; Allagulova, C.; Fedorova, K.; Baymiev, A.; Koryakov,I.; Sobhani, M. Seed priming with endophytic Bacillus subtilis strain-speciﬁcally improves growth of Phaseolus vulgaris plantsunder normal and salinity conditions and exerts anti-stress effect through induced lignin deposition in roots and decreasedoxidative and osmotic damages. J. Plant Physiol. 2021 ,263, 153462. [CrossRef]79. Acuña-Rodr íguez, I.S.; Newsham, K.K.; Gundel, P .E.; Torres-D íaz, C.; Molina-Montenegro, M.A. Functional roles of microbialsymbionts in plant cold tolerance. Ecol. Lett. 2020 ,23, 1034–1048. [CrossRef]80. Ji, Q.; Gao, Y.G.; Zhao, Y.; He, Z.M.; Zang, P .; Zhu, H.Y.; Yang, H.; Li, X.; Zhang, L.X. Determination of ginsenosides by Bacilluspolymyxa conversion and evaluation on pharmacological activities of the conversion products. Process Biochem. 2015 ,6, 1016–1022.[CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 21 of 2381. Gao, Y.G.; Liu, Q.; Zang, P .; Li, X.; Ji, Q.; He, Z.M.; Zhao, Y.; Yang, H.; Zhao, X.L.; Zhang, L.X. An endophytic bacterium isolatedfrom Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer enhances growth, reduces morbidity, and stimulates ginsenoside biosynthesis. Phytochem. Lett.2015 ,11, 132–138. [CrossRef]82. Cao, J.; Liu, B.; Xu, X.; Zhang, X.; Zhu, C.; Li, Y.; Ding, X. Plant Endophytic Fungus Extract ZNC Improved Potato Immunity,Yield, and Quality. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 707256. [CrossRef] [PubMed]83. Aleynova, O.A.; Suprun, A.R.; Nityagovsky, N.N.; Dubrovina, A.S.; Kiselev, K.V . The Inﬂuence of the Grapevine Bacterial andFungal Endophytes on Biomass Accumulation and Stilbene Production by the In Vitro Cultivated Cells of Vitis amurensis Rupr.Plants 2021 ,10, 1276. [CrossRef] [PubMed]84. De Rocchis, V .; Jammer, A.; Camehl, I.; Franken, P .; Roitsch, T. Tomato growth promotion by the fungal endophytes Serendipitaindica and Serendipita herbamans is associated with sucrose de-novo synthesis in roots and differential local and systemic effectson carbohydrate metabolisms and gene expression. J. Plant Physiol. 2022 ,276, 153755. [CrossRef] [PubMed]85. Tolba, S.R.T.; Rosso, L.C.; Pentimone, I.; Colagiero, M.; Moustafa, M.M.A.; Elshawaf, I.I.S.; Bubici, G.; Prigigallo, M.I.; Ciancio, A.Root Endophytism by Pochonia chlamydosporia Affects Defense-Gene Expression in Leaves of Monocot and Dicot Hosts underMultiple Biotic Interactions. Plants 2021 ,10, 718. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Oviedo-Pereira, D.G.; L ópez-Meyer, M.; Evangelista-Lozano, S.; Sarmiento-L ópez, L.G.; Sep úlveda-Jim énez, G.; Rodr íguez-Monroy, M. Enhanced specialized metabolite, trichome density, and biosynthetic gene expression in Stevia rebaudiana (Bertoni)Bertoni plants inoculated with endophytic bacteria Enterobacter hormaechei .PeerJ 2022 ,10, e13675. [CrossRef]87. Zhou, H.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Xie, Y.; Nadeem, H.; Tang, C. Flagellin C decreases the expression of the Gossypium hirsutumcation/proton exchanger 3 gene to promote calcium ion, hydrogen peroxide, and nitric oxide and synergistically regulate theresistance of cotton to Verticillium wilt. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 969506. [CrossRef] [PubMed]88. Qin, L.; Tian, P .; Cui, Q.; Hu, S.; Jian, W.; Xie, C.; Yang, X.; Shen, H. Bacillus circulans GN03 Alters the Microbiota, Promotes CottonSeedling Growth and Disease Resistance, and Increases the Expression of Phytohormone Synthesis and Disease Resistance-RelatedGenes. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 644597. [CrossRef]89. Singh, S.K.; Strobel, G.A.; Knighton, B.; Geary, B.; Sears, J.; Ezra, D. An endophytic Phomopsis sp. possessing bioactivity and fuelpotential with its volatile organic compounds. Microb. Ecol. 2011 ,61, 729–739. [CrossRef]90. ZX, A.; YC, C.; WZ, A.; DL, D.; XZA, B. Bacillus pumilus alleviates drought stress and increases metabolite accumulation inGlycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2019 ,158, 99–106. [CrossRef]91. Piccoli, P .; Travaglia, C.; Cohen, A.; Sosa, L.; Cornejo, P .; Masuelli, R.; Bottini, R. An endophytic bacterium isolated from rootsof the halophyte Prosopis strombulifera produces ABA, IAA, gibberellins A1 and A3 and jasmonic acid in chemically-deﬁnedculture medium. Plant Growth Regul. 2011 ,64, 207–210. [CrossRef]92. Motoyama, T. Secondary Metabolites of the Rice Blast Fungus Pyricularia oryzae : Biosynthesis and Biological Function. Int. J. Mol.Sci.2020 ,21, 8698. [CrossRef] [PubMed]93. Kusari, S.; Verma, V .C.; Lamshoeft, M.; Spiteller, M. An endophytic fungus from Azadirachta indica A. Juss. that producesazadirachtin. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2012 ,28, 1287–1294. [CrossRef] [PubMed]94. Liu, J.; Liu, G. Analysis of Secondary Metabolites from Plant Endophytic Fungi. Methods Mol. Biol. 2018 ,1848 , 25–38. [CrossRef][PubMed]95. Leylaie, S.; Zafari, D. Antiproliferative and Antimicrobial Activities of Secondary Metabolites and Phylogenetic Study ofEndophytic Trichoderma Species From Vinca Plants. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 1484. [CrossRef] [PubMed]96. Nifakos, K.; Tsalgatidou, P .C.; Thomloudi, E.E.; Skagia, A.; Kotopoulis, D.; Baira, E.; Delis, C.; Papadimitriou, K.; Markellou,E.; Venieraki, A.; et al. Genomic Analysis and Secondary Metabolites Production of the Endophytic Bacillus velezensis Bvel1: ABiocontrol Agent against Botrytis cinerea Causing Bunch Rot in Post-Harvest Table Grapes. Plants 2021 ,10, 1716. [CrossRef][PubMed]97. Rat, A.; Naranjo, H.D.; Krigas, N.; Grigoriadou, K.; Maloupa, E.; Alonso, A.V .; Schneider, C.; Papageorgiou, V .P .; Assimopoulou,A.N.; Tsafantakis, N.; et al. Endophytic Bacteria From the Roots of the Medicinal Plant Alkanna tinctoria Tausch ( Boraginaceae ):Exploration of Plant Growth Promoting Properties and Potential Role in the Production of Plant Secondary Metabolites. Front.Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 633488. [CrossRef]98. Monowar, T.; Rahman, M.S.; Bhore, S.J.; Raju, G.; Sathasivam, K.V . Secondary Metabolites Proﬁling of Acinetobacter baumanniiAssociated with Chili ( Capsicum annuum L.) Leaves and Concentration Dependent Antioxidant and Prooxidant Properties. Biomed.Res. Int. 2019 ,2019 , 6951927. [CrossRef]99. Mohamad, O.A.A.; Li, L.; Ma, J.B.; Hatab, S.; Xu, L.; Guo, J.W.; Rasulov, B.A.; Liu, Y.H.; Hedlund, B.P .; Li, W.J. Evaluationof the Antimicrobial Activity of Endophytic Bacterial Populations From Chinese Traditional Medicinal Plant Licorice andCharacterization of the Bioactive Secondary Metabolites Produced by Bacillus atrophaeus Against Verticillium dahliae. Front.Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 924. [CrossRef]100. Zhou, J.Y.; Sun, K.; Chen, F.; Yuan, J.; Li, X.; Dai, C.C. Endophytic Pseudomonas induces metabolic ﬂux changes that enhancemedicinal sesquiterpenoid accumulation in Atractylodes lancea .Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2018 ,130, 473–481. [CrossRef]101. Liu, T.H.; Zhang, X.M.; Tian, S.Z.; Chen, L.G.; Yuan, J.L. Bioinformatics analysis of endophytic bacteria related to berberine in theChinese medicinal plant Coptis teeta Wall. 3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 96. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 22 of 23102. Yin, D.D.; Wang, Y.L.; Yang, M.; Yin, D.K.; Wang, G.K.; Xu, F. Analysis of Chuanxiong Rhizoma substrate on production ofligustrazine in endophytic Bacillus subtilis by ultra high performance liquid chromatography with quadrupole time-of-ﬂight massspectrometry. J. Sep. Sci. 2019 ,42, 3067–3076. [CrossRef] [PubMed]103. Matsumoto, H.; Fan, X.; Wang, Y.; Kusstatscher, P .; Duan, J.; Wu, S.; Chen, S.; Qiao, K.; Wang, Y.; Ma, B.; et al. Bacterial seedendophyte shapes disease resistance in rice. Nat. Plants 2021 ,7, 60–72. [CrossRef] [PubMed]104. Peng, Q.Z.; Chen, L.; Lang-Bo, Y.I.; Chen, Y.G. Transformation of Curcumin by Endophytic Fungus Diaporthe sp. Isolated fromCurcuma Longa. Lett. Biotechnol. 2010 ,21, 196–199.105. Fu, S.B.; Yang, J.S.; Cui, J.L.; Sun, D.A. Screening of endophytic fungi from medicinal plant for microbial transformation of ursolcacid. Chin. Pharm. J. 2011 ,46, 1225–1228.106. Bastos, D.Z.; Pimentel, I.C.; de Jesus, D.A.; de Oliveira, B.H. Biotransformation of betulinic and betulonic acids by fungi.Phytochemistry 2007 ,68, 834–839. [CrossRef] [PubMed]107. Karkaria, B.D.; Fedorec, A.J.H.; Barnes, C.P . Automated design of synthetic microbial communities. Nat. Commun. 2021 ,12, 672.[CrossRef] [PubMed]108. Shou, W.; Ram, S.; Vilar, J.M. Synthetic cooperation in engineered yeast populations. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2007 ,104,1877–1882. [CrossRef]109. Balagadd é, F.K.; Song, H.; Ozaki, J.; Collins, C.H.; Barnet, M.; Arnold, F.H.; Quake, S.R.; You, L. A synthetic Escherichia colipredator-prey ecosystem. Mol. Syst. Biol. 2008 ,4, 187. [CrossRef]110. Kim, H.J.; Boedicker, J.Q.; Choi, J.; Ismagilov, R.F. Deﬁned spatial structure stabilizes a synthetic multispecies bacterial community.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2008 ,105, 18188–18193. [CrossRef]111. Klitgord, N.; Segr è, D. Environments that induce synthetic microbial ecosystems. PLoS Comput. Biol. 2010 ,6, e1001002. [CrossRef]112. Faith, J.J.; McNulty, N.P .; Rey, F.E.; Gordon, J.I. Predicting a human gut microbiota’s response to diet in gnotobiotic mice. Science2011 ,333, 101–104. [CrossRef]113. Grosskopf, T.; Soyer, O.S. Synthetic microbial communities. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2014 ,18, 72–77. [CrossRef] [PubMed]114. Bodenhausen, N.; Bortfeld-Miller, M.; Ackermann, M.; Vorholt, J.A. A synthetic community approach reveals plant genotypesaffecting the phyllosphere microbiota. PLoS Genet. 2014 ,10, e1004283. [CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Zhang, J.; Liu, Y.X.; Zhang, N.; Hu, B.; Jin, T.; Xu, H.; Qin, Y.; Yan, P .; Zhang, X.; Guo, X.; et al. NRT1.1B is associated with rootmicrobiota composition and nitrogen use in ﬁeld-grown rice. Nat. Biotechnol. 2019 ,37, 676–684. [CrossRef] [PubMed]116. Niu, B.; Paulson, J.N.; Zheng, X.; Kolter, R. Simpliﬁed and representative bacterial community of maize roots. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2017 ,114, E2450–E2459. [CrossRef] [PubMed]117. Widder, S.; Allen, R.J.; Pfeiffer, T.; Curtis, T.P .; Wiuf, C.; Sloan, W.T.; Cordero, O.X.; Brown, S.P .; Momeni, B.; Shou, W.; et al.Challenges in microbial ecology: Building predictive understanding of community function and dynamics. ISME J. 2016 ,10,2557–2568. [CrossRef]118. Wang, S.; Yang, C.; Tu, H.; Zhou, J.; Liu, X.; Cheng, Y.; Luo, J.; Deng, X.; Zhang, H.; Xu, J. Characterization and Metabolic Diversityof Flavonoids in Citrus Species. Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 10549. [CrossRef]119. Danko, D.; Bezdan, D.; Afshin, E.E.; Ahsanuddin, S.; Bhattacharya, C.; Butler, D.J.; Chng, K.R.; Donnellan, D.; Hecht, J.; Jackson,K.; et al. A global metagenomic map of urban microbiomes and antimicrobial resistance. Cell2021 ,184, 3376–3393.e17. [CrossRef]120. Roesch, L.F.; Fulthorpe, R.R.; Riva, A.; Casella, G.; Hadwin, A.K.; Kent, A.D.; Daroub, S.H.; Camargo, F.A.; Farmerie, W.G.;Triplett, E.W. Pyrosequencing enumerates and contrasts soil microbial diversity. ISME J. 2007 ,1, 283–290. [CrossRef]121. Huber, J.A.; Mark Welch, D.B.; Morrison, H.G.; Huse, S.M.; Neal, P .R.; Butterﬁeld, D.A.; Sogin, M.L. Microbial populationstructures in the deep marine biosphere. Science 2007 ,318, 97–100. [CrossRef]122. Wheeler, D.A.; Srinivasan, M.; Egholm, M.; Shen, Y.; Chen, L.; McGuire, A.; He, W.; Chen, Y.J.; Makhijani, V .; Roth, G.T.; et al. Thecomplete genome of an individual by massively parallel DNA sequencing. Nature 2008 ,452, 872–876. [CrossRef] [PubMed]123. Merritt, C.R.; Ong, G.T.; Church, S.E.; Barker, K.; Danaher, P .; Geiss, G.; Hoang, M.; Jung, J.; Liang, Y.; McKay-Fleisch, J. Multiplexdigital spatial proﬁling of proteins and RNA in ﬁxed tissue. Nat. Biotechnol. 2020 ,38, 586–599. [CrossRef] [PubMed]124. Eveland, A.L.; Satoh-Nagasawa, N.; Goldshmidt, A.; Meyer, S.; Beatty, M.; Sakai, H.; Ware, D.; Jackson, D. Digital gene expressionsignatures for maize development. Plant Physiol. 2010 ,154, 1024–1039. [CrossRef] [PubMed]125. Liu, Q.; Ding, C.; Lang, X.; Guo, G.; Chen, J.; Su, X. Small noncoding RNA discovery and proﬁling with sRNAtools based onhigh-throughput sequencing. Brief. Bioinform. 2021 ,22, 463–473. [CrossRef]126. Lu, C.; Tej, S.S.; Luo, S.; Haudenschild, C.D.; Meyers, B.C.; Green, P .J. Elucidation of the small RNA component of thetranscriptome. Science 2005 ,309, 1567–1569. [CrossRef]127. Jiang, M.; Jia, K.; Wang, L.; Li, W.; Chen, B.; Liu, Y.; Wang, H.; Zhao, S.; He, Y.; Zhou, C. Alterations of DNA damage responsepathway: Biomarker and therapeutic strategy for cancer immunotherapy. Acta Pharm. Sin. B 2021 ,11, 2983–2994. [CrossRef]128. Wang, X.; Niu, Q.W.; Teng, C.; Li, C.; Mu, J.; Chua, N.H.; Zuo, J. Overexpression of PGA37/MYB118 and MYB115 promotesvegetative-to-embryonic transition in Arabidopsis .Cell Res. 2009 ,19, 224–235. [CrossRef]129. Battu, L.; Reddy, M.M.; Goud, B.S.; Ulaganathan, K.; Kandasamy, U. Genome inside genome: NGS based identiﬁcation andassembly of endophytic Sphingopyxis granuli and Pseudomonas aeruginosa genomes from rice genomic reads. Genomics 2017 ,109, 141–146. [CrossRef]Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2023 ,24, 1153 23 of 23130. Cokus, S.J.; Feng, S.; Zhang, X.; Chen, Z.; Merriman, B.; Haudenschild, C.D.; Pradhan, S.; Nelson, S.F.; Pellegrini, M.; Jacobsen,S.E. Shotgun bisulphite sequencing of the Arabidopsis genome reveals DNA methylation patterning. Nature 2008 ,452, 215–219.[CrossRef]131. Li, L.; Liu, C.; Wen, W.; Li, Q.; Pan, T.; Li, Z.; Qian, G.; He, Y.; Xu, D. Dendrobine biosynthesis in Dendrobium nobile in fourdifferent habitats is affected by the variations in the endophytic fungal community. Front. Microbiol. 2022 ,13, 981070. [CrossRef]132. Franzosa, E.A.; Hsu, T.; Sirota-Madi, A.; Shafquat, A.; Abu-Ali, G.; Morgan, X.C.; Huttenhower, C. Sequencing and beyond:Integrating molecular ‘omics’ for microbial community proﬁling. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2015 ,13, 360–372. [CrossRef] [PubMed]133. Hou, S.; Thiergart, T.; Vannier, N.; Mesny, F.; Ziegler, J.; Pickel, B.; Hacquard, S. A microbiota-root-shoot circuit favoursArabidopsis growth over defence under suboptimal light. Nat. Plants 2021 ,7, 1078–1092. [CrossRef] [PubMed]134. Dai, X.; Zhu, Y.; Luo, Y.; Song, L.; Liu, D.; Liu, L.; Chen, F.; Wang, M.; Li, J.; Zeng, X.; et al. Metagenomic insights into the ﬁbrolyticmicrobiome in yak rumen. PLoS ONE 2012 ,7, e40430. [CrossRef]135. Chen, W.; Guillaume-Gentil, O.; Rainer, P .Y.; Gäbelein, C.G.; Saelens, W.; Gardeux, V .; Klaeger, A.; Dainese, R.; Zachara, M.;Zambelli, T.; et al. Live-seq enables temporal transcriptomic recording of single cells. Nature 2022 ,608, 733–740. [CrossRef][PubMed]136. Prosser, J.I. Dispersing misconceptions and identifying opportunities for the use of ‘omics’ in soil microbial ecology. Nat. Rev.Microbiol. 2015 ,13, 439–446. [CrossRef] [PubMed]137. OuYang, X.L.; Liu, J.L.; Gong, G.L.; Shen, G.N.; Yuan, Y.; Gao, Y.M.; Yan, A.; Wang, W.D. Advances in Endophytes and SecondaryMetabolites of Ginkgo biloba .J. Heilongjiang Bayi Agric. Univ. 2021 ,33, 72–78. [CrossRef]138. Torres-Mendoza, D.; Ortega, H.E.; Cubilla-Rios, L. Patents on Endophytic Fungi Related to Secondary Metabolites and Biotrans-formation Applications. J. Fungi. 2020 ,6, 58. [CrossRef]139. Geng, X. Endophytic Fungi and Secondary Metabolites of Rehmannia Glutinosa Based on Traditional Chinese Medicine Fingerprints.Contrast Media Mol. Imaging 2022 ,202, 7701198. [CrossRef]140. Sankari, S.; Babu, V .M.P .; Bian, K.; Alhhazmi, A.; Andorfer, M.C.; Avalos, D.M.; Smith, T.A.; Yoon, K.; Drennan, C.L.; Yaffe,M.B.; et al. A haem-sequestering plant peptide promotes iron uptake in symbiotic bacteria. Nat. Microbiol. 2022 ,7, 1453–1465.[CrossRef]Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individualauthor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury topeople or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.