Citation: Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola,O.O. Fungi That Promote PlantGrowth in the Rhizosphere BoostCrop Growth. J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239.https://doi.org/10.3390/jof9020239Academic Editors: Claudia MariaOliveira Longa and Lidia NicolaReceived: 22 January 2023Revised: 5 February 2023Accepted: 7 February 2023Published: 10 February 2023Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).FungiJournal of ReviewFungi That Promote Plant Growth in the Rhizosphere BoostCrop GrowthAfeez Adesina Adedayo and Olubukola Oluranti Babalola *Food Security and Safety Focus Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Sciences, North-West University,Private Bag X2046, Mmabatho 2735, South Africa*Correspondence: olubukola.babalola@nwu.ac.za; Tel.: +27-(0)-183-892-568Abstract: The fungi species dwelling in the rhizosphere of crop plants, revealing functions thatendeavor sustainability of the plants, are commonly referred to as ‘plant-growth-promoting fungi’(PGPF). They are biotic inducers that provide beneﬁts and carry out important functions in agricul-tural sustainability. The problem encountered in the agricultural system nowadays is how to meetpopulation demand based on crop yield and protection without putting the environment and humanand animal health at risk based on crop production. PGPF including Trichoderma spp., Gliocladiumvirens ,Penicillium digitatum ,Aspergillus ﬂavus ,Actinomucor elegans ,Podospora bulbillosa , Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi, etc., have proven their ecofriendly nature to ameliorate the production of crops byimproving the growth of the shoots and roots of crop plants, the germination of seeds, the productionof chlorophyll for photosynthesis, and the abundant production of crops. PGPF’s potential modeof action is as follows: the mineralization of the major and minor elements required to supportplants’ growth and productivity. In addition, PGPF produce phytohormones, induced resistance,and defense-related enzymes to inhibit or eradicate the invasion of pathogenic microbes, in otherwords, to help the plants while encountering stress. This review portrays the potential of PGPF asan effective bioagent to facilitate and promote crop production, plant growth, resistance to diseaseinvasion, and various abiotic stresses.Keywords: abiotic factors; biotic factors; crop protection; crop science; phytohormones; plant growth;IR; soil microbial ecology; sustainable agriculture1. IntroductionThe population of humans globally is anticipated to rise to approximately 9.7 billionfrom the issues encountered nowadays, such as high birth rates, etc., by the year 2050, asestimated by the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO) [ 1–3].The population growth, expected to rise by 34% in several years, will affect food prices [ 4].From another point of view, the production of food crops cannot be expected to increase atthis rate. Therefore, there is a need to improve agricultural production to equilibrate thesocioeconomic challenges that might erupt due to population growth. The production offoods and other agricultural products should increase from the current food productionby 70% to sustain the population globally [ 5]. To achieve this goal, plant disease must beinhibited or eradicated to promote food security.Crop plants such as tomatoes, cucumbers, and carrots are primary vegetables con-sumed by humans and animals globally because of the essential vitamins, carotene, andminerals they contain [ 6]. However, these crops, including tomatoes, cucumbers, carrots,oranges, etc., are affected by phytopathogens, such as powdery mildew caused by Oidiumneolycopersici on tomatoes [ 7], downy mildew caused by Pseudoperonospora cubensis on cu-cumbers [ 8], powdery mildew Erisyphe heraclei on carrots [ 9], and soft rot on oranges causedbyPenicillium digitatum , and Fusarium oxysporum [10], thereby reducing their productsglobally. Phytopathogens are microorganisms that produce phytopathogenic toxins thatJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239. https://doi.org/10.3390/jof9020239 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jofJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 2 of 27destroy crop plants, thereby reducing the production of crops for human consumption [ 7].In addition, they cause various diseases, and the microbial agents responsible include softrot (Fusarium oxysporum ,Aspergillus niger ) [11,12], early blight ( Alternaria solani ) [13], andpowdery mildew ( Oidium neolycopersici ) [14]. Aside from the effect of phytopathogens,certain chemical derivatives meant to inhibit the existence of pests and diseases or to boostthe fertility of agricultural soil are potentially detrimental to the health of humans andanimals once fed the crop to which the chemical has been applied [ 10], thereby leadingto less production. Due to these problems encountered, researchers have worked outalternative means that can potentially inhibit the growth of phytopathogens and replaceagrochemicals once applied on farmland.Plant-growth-promoting fungi (PGPF) resident microorganisms residing in therhizosphere soil of various crop plants, in which tomato plants are not left out, are oneof the effective and ecologically friendly derivatives scientists investigated to inhibitor eradicate plant diseases. They were known for improving the defense mechanismsand growth in plants [ 15]. PGPF applications suppress the usage of agrochemicals andlikewise prevent plants from biotic and abiotic stresses [ 16]. Various studies reportedthe following PGPF genera ( Gliocladium ,Penicillium ,Phoma ,Phytophthora ,Rhizoctonia ,Talaromyces ,Trichoderma ) to improve tomato [ 15], orange [ 10], apple [ 17], pear [ 18],cucumber [ 19], carrot [ 20], and other plants’ growth and further promote the plants’innate immunity and the production of various necessary secondary metabolites bythe plants. PGPF perform the following functions in plants: antagonistic or biocontrolpotential by competing for space and nutrients [ 10], growth hormone production [ 21],mineral solubilization, mycoparasitic and saprophytic resistance, root colonization, andinduced systemic resistance (ISR) in plants [ 22]. Aside from the above roles mentioned,PGPF suppress the invasion of phytopathogens on tomato plants as well as other cropplants, they contribute to the improvement of nutrients in the soil, and they produce 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase and other phytohormones to reducethe production of ethylene in the plants [23].The low-yield production of tomatoes and other crops is actualized by biotic andabiotic stresses that are of significant concern that reduce soil fertility [ 24]. Drought,high and low temperatures, high winds, and soil salinity are prominent abiotic stressesaffecting the production of crop plants. Destructive environmental stresses that im-plement reductions in farmland and agricultural produce are soil salinity and soilsolidification.The biotechnological technique is sustainable and effective in stimulating the interac-tion between PGPF and plant root exudates, which is required to improve the abundantproduction of crops and as well to promote soil health [ 25]. The PGPF found in the rhi-zosphere can improve the level at which plants respond to environmental stresses andpromote crop production. In this study, crop plants are observed as superorganisms thatcount so much on PGPF for purposeful roles and characters. However, various studieshave reported the association between PGPF and crop plants to improve the growth, healthstatus, and production of healthy crops [ 7,21,26]. Therefore, crop plants can exploit PGPFin line with their advantages by selectively stimulating PGPF with the potential to inducethe growth and development of tomato plants.2. Microbial Communities’ Beneﬁcial Association in the Rhizosphere Soil ofCrop PlantsPGPF can change the bacteria’s physiological features in the soil [ 21]. The Pseudomonasspp. population in the rhizosphere depends on the roles it carries out and the activityof the ectomycorrhizosphere [ 27]. The bacteria can survive on the fungi hyphae, mostnotably when they can produce a bioﬁlm or secrete type III secretion systems (ITSSs) asthe mechanism of survival on the hyphae aside movement. The exudates produced by theroots of mycorrhiza are a substrate for the conventional growth of bacteria, and the bacteriaactivate changes and the availability of both Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and tomato plantsJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 3 of 27to nutrients [ 28]. The interactive association between AMF and Bradyrhizobium japanicumhas been revealed to help stimulate proper growth in most tomato plants [ 29]. AMF andPGPF have also been reported to improve the growth of cucumbers and likewise inhibitdamping off [ 30]. PGPF ( T. viride and P . chrysogenum ) have been reported for their efﬁcacyon oranges to prevent post-harvest diseases [10].Endosymbiosis is an association between bacteria and class Basidiomycetes, despitelittle interaction occurring in class Ascomycetes. Intracellular association has challengingadvantages for plants due to the different number of growth-promoting enzymes affectedduring these associations. The symbiotic association occurring between fungi and bacteriais not only restricted to the beneﬁts obtained in tomato plants, but also the potential toprotect bacteria from the activities of antibiotics, as in Piriformospora indica [31]. Withbacterial presence, the ability of fungi to involve in endosymbiosis assists some of the phylain completing their life cycle [ 32]. Thomas and Singh [ 33] reported the endosymbiosisassociation that was characterized between Basidiomycetes and Zygomycetes, whichfurther revealed how numbers of bacteria could be sheltered by Glomeromycota fungispores, thereby retaining their existence in their habitat.2.1. PGPF Improve Crop Production under Biotic StressThe soil microbiome has a beneficial association with plants, thereby improving theplants’ well-being and productivity. These microbiomes are found in the rhizosphereof crop plants, among which are algae, archaea, arthropods, bacteria, chlamydia, fungi,nematodes, viruses, oomycetes, protozoa, etc. [ 7]. Various fungal classes, includingAscomycetes, Basidiomycetes, and Deuteromycetes, can produce the PGPF trait (PGPT)of plant growth (Figure 1). For the treatment of tomato seeds, PGPF have been used toimprove the growth and production of tomatoes, likewise stimulating the elongation ofshoots and roots [ 7]. The crop plant’s potential to photosynthesize and improve cropscan be promoted by inoculating PGPF [ 34]. PGPF can likewise induce the stimulationof secondary metabolites from the crop plant. The secondary metabolite compoundsthat protect tomato plants from phytopathogens can be attained in various ways. PGPFstimulate antimicrobial agents and can be a biocontrol agent to control or inhibit thegrowth of phytopathogens. These microorganisms also stimulate systemic resistance(SR) to safeguard plants. Induced systemic resistance (ISR) is the process by which plantsantagonize the activities of phytopathogens where PGPF are active by inducing plantdefenses [35].The process by which PGPF promote the production of crops includes inhibiting theinvasion of phytopathogens such as bacteria, fungi, nematodes, and oomycetes. Diseaseoccurrences as a result of these phytopathogen attacks cause a loss of crop productionglobally. Tolerating biotic stresses is essential for completing the growth phase. To eradicatethe problems encountered by biotic stresses, crop plants have formulated many methodsfor adapting to the environment for living [ 36]. Crop plants respond to external stress,induced, and then stimulated cellular responses. This runs to differential transcriptionalchanges, engaging the plant to tolerate various stresses. The signaling tracts perform anessential function and play a connecting link between environmental stress and creating abiochemical and physiological response.Plants are mostly subjected to various activities of phytopathogens. For plants tokeep themselves safe, PGPF inhabiting the rhizosphere soil and those embedded in planttissues are a defense mechanism to safeguard themselves from activities induced by phy-topathogens’ invasion [37]. The incursion of the plant cell wall subjects the plant spoilageorganisms to the cell membrane of the plants where they come across extracellular surfacereceptors that identify pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMP) [38].The identiﬁcation of phytopathogens at the cell surface activates PAMP-triggeredimmunity (PTI), which commonly inhibits infection before the phytopathogen invades theentire plant [38–40].J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 4 of 27J. Fungi 2023 , 9, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 28   The identification of phytop athogens at the cell surface activates PAMP-triggered immunity (PTI), which commonly inhibits infection before the phytopathogen invades the entire plant [38–40].  Figure 1. The plant-growth-promoting fu ngi biotic and abiotic factors potential of crop plants. 2.1.1. Phytohormone Production Phytohormones perform an important functi on in controlling the growth of crop plants and their defense mechanisms [23]. IAA is a prominent auxin hormone that promotes the growth of crop plants’ shoots and roots. Penicillium janczewskiy  was reported to stimulate inhibition against Rhizoctonia solani , a phytopathogen causing stem rot, by producing IAA [41]. Auxin precursor’s engagement in these processes has not been confirmed, but the growth of plant roots is improved systematically with the ascertained effects of the stimulation of fungal-based auxin. PGPF, including Aspergillus , Mortierella , Talaromyces , Fusarium , Penicillium , and Trichoderma,  reported being isolated from the root-soil to produce IAA from plants and contribute to the development of tomato plants [19]. Some phytohormones control the development of seeds and plant roots and shoots alongside IAA and gibberellin (GA). Likewise, the application of Cladosporium  sp. to tomato plants improved their growth due to the production of GA [42], and it has been proposed that the production of GA performs an important function in the colonization of pea plants. According to Meena, et al. [ 35], other PGPF evoked cytokinin production, which supported growth in plants. Likewise , Attia, et al. [15] reported how PGPF stimulate abscisic acid and promote tomato plants’ growth under biotic and abiotic stresses.   Figure 1. The plant-growth-promoting fungi biotic and abiotic factors potential of crop plants.2.1.1. Phytohormone ProductionPhytohormones perform an important function in controlling the growth of crop plantsand their defense mechanisms [ 23]. IAA is a prominent auxin hormone that promotes thegrowth of crop plants’ shoots and roots. Penicillium janczewskiy was reported to stimu-late inhibition against Rhizoctonia solani , a phytopathogen causing stem rot, by producingIAA [ 41]. Auxin precursor’s engagement in these processes has not been conﬁrmed, butthe growth of plant roots is improved systematically with the ascertained effects of thestimulation of fungal-based auxin. PGPF, including Aspergillus ,Mortierella ,Talaromyces ,Fusarium ,Penicillium , and Trichoderma , reported being isolated from the root-soil to pro-duce IAA from plants and contribute to the development of tomato plants [ 19]. Somephytohormones control the development of seeds and plant roots and shoots alongsideIAA and gibberellin (GA). Likewise, the application of Cladosporium sp. to tomato plantsimproved their growth due to the production of GA [ 42], and it has been proposed thatthe production of GA performs an important function in the colonization of pea plants.According to Meena, et al. [ 35], other PGPF evoked cytokinin production, which supportedgrowth in plants. Likewise, Attia, et al. [ 15] reported how PGPF stimulate abscisic acid andpromote tomato plants’ growth under biotic and abiotic stresses.2.1.2. Plant Growth PromotionVarious fungi inhabiting the rhizosphere of tomatoes and other crop plants contributepositively to the growth of the plants. The following fungi, including Aspergillus ,Penicil-J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 5 of 27lium ,Rhizoctonia ,Talaromyces ,Trichoderma , etc., are involved in plant growth promotion,as reported in Table 1. In contrast to the above fact, there are some species of fungi, in-cluding Aspergillus (A. wentii ,Aspergillus versicolor , and A. niger ) [10,43],Fusarium spp.(F. oxysporum ) [44], and Penicillium spp. ( P . citreonigrum ,P . citrinum ,P . digitatum , and P . jan-thinellim ) [45], that cause crops diseases. Various studies have reported how Trichodermaspecies ( T. viride ,T. harzianum ) and Penicillium chrysogenum promote the growth of tomatoesand other crop plants [ 46]. The study further revealed how these PGPF are unique in thehost plants associated with growth promotion. It has been reported that various PGPFresiding in the rhizosphere, including sterile black fungi (SBF), sterile dark fungi (SDF),and sterile red fungi (SRF) in crop plants such as barley, bromegrass, chickpeas, clovers,corn, lupine, peas, and wheat, contribute to and enhance the growth promotion of thesecrop plants [ 41]. The above report coincides with the study that revealed how Trichodermaspp. and Penicillium spp. improve the development of rice crop plants in no more than amonth [ 47], although other studies claimed that PGPF could take a long time before thegrowth of the crop plants can manifest.Table 1. Plant-growth-promoting fungi contribute to crop plant growth and development.PGPF Crop Plant Activities ReferencesAspergillus ﬂavus ,Aspergillus niger ,Mucor circinelloides , andPencillium oxalicumSolanum lycopersicumBiological control activity of PGPF againstF. oxysporum[15]Arbuscular mycorrhizal,Trichoderma speciesArtemisia annua ,Arabidopsis ,Zea mays ,Oryza sativa ,Arachishypogaea ,Helianthus annuus ,and Solanum lycopersicumDisease combating, detoxiﬁcation of organicand inorganic toxic chemicals, induction ofsystemic resistance, plant growthpromotion, secretion of secondarymetabolites, and heavy metaltolerance ability[48]Daldinia eschscholtzii ,Sarocladiumoryzae ,Rhizoctonia oryzae ,Penicilliumallahabadense , and Aspergillus foetidusCucumis sativusPromote plant growth by stimulatingsecondary metabolites, includingphytohormones, siderophore, andphosphate-solubilizing metabolites[19]Trichoderma ,Rhizoctonia ,Fusarium ,Penicillium ,Talaromyces ,Gliocladium ,Phoma , and PhytophthoraZea mays and Oryza sativaCrop protection and crop yield promotingseed germination, enhanced root and shootgrowth, and producing fruit andchlorophyll.[41]Cladosporium cladosporioides ,Penicillium simplicissimum , andCladosporium pseudocladosporioidesVicia villosaAbility to promote plant growth andbiocontrol effects against Calonectria ilicicolain plants[49]Alternaria tenuissima ,Byssochlamysspectabilis ,Nigrospora chinensis ,Cephalotheca oveolate ,Chaetomiumglobosum , and Penicillium meliniiAeluropus littoralis Biostimulant activities [50]Aspergillus niger Forage grassProduction of IAA, siderophores, ammonia,phosphate solubilization,1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC)deaminase, and enzymes such as proteases,phosphatases, and other hydrolases[51]Leguminous ( Clonostachys spp.,Trichoderma spp., andPenicillium spp.) andnon-leguminous ( Purpureocilliumspp., Taifanglania spp., Trichodermaspp., and Aspergillus spp.)Vicia villosa (leguminous) andBrassica juncea(non-leguminous)Promote or enhance plant growth. Thestrain solubilizes phosphorus and producesa siderophore, while others revealed thepotential to produce IAA with/outtryptophan. Extracellular enzyme potentials,including endoglucanase and -glucosidaseactivities, were also conﬁrmed in thesoil-incorporated green manures[52]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 6 of 27Table 1. Cont.PGPF Crop Plant Activities ReferencesTrichoderma spp, andAspergillus spp.Cucumis sativus andArabidopsisContribute to biofertilizer stimulation withsoil resident fungi, thereby improvingplant growth[53]Trichoderma longibrachiatum Triticum aestivumPromote plant growth and induce immunityto parasitic nematodes[54]Trichoderma sp.,Penicillium spp.,Aspergillus spp., Phoma spp.,Fusarium spp., Aspergillus spp.,Chaetomium sp.,Metarhium spp.,and Acremonium spp.Zea maysimprove plant health and contribute to thegrowth and development[55]Actinomucor elegans andPodospora bulbillosaSolanum lycopersicumThe fungi produce higher amounts ofchlorophyll, antioxidants, amino acids,carotenoids, proteins, activities, sucrosecontents, glucose, salicylic acid, and fructoseand reveal hydrogen peroxide and lipidmetabolism relative to inﬂuenceplant growth.[56]Several studies have reported the importance of PGPF in greenhouse and ﬁeld experi-ments as they promotes the growth of crop plants employed in the studies [ 53]. The conidialsuspension of A. niger ,P . citrinum , and T. harzianum for the treatment of chickpea seeds hassubstantially enhanced the plant’s growth [ 41]. Moreover, Brassica, chili, and cucumberplants’ growths were reported to be enhanced by the following PGPF: Chaetomium spp.,Exophiala sp., and Talaromyces spp. [ 50].Penicillium sp. enhanced chili, sesame, and tomatoplants’ growths [ 57]. However, T. koningi enhanced the growth as well as the stimulationof phytoalexin, and this species of PGPF was able to establish itself in the colonization ofLotus japonicus plant roots. Aside from the facts that have been revealed above, the poten-tial of green plants to synthesize sunlight (photosynthesis) is increased when inoculatedwith PGPF, as observed with some plants. The results show how the chlorophyll contentincreases, thereby improving the plant’s potential to photosynthesize, further enhancingplant growth [ 58]. The colonization of PGPF in plant roots enhances plant root growthand promotes plant growth. In comparison to the above study, some PGPF have beenrevealed not to have the potential to colonize the roots of plants to promote developmentand crop production [ 59]. In the case that colonization is achieved, the proﬁciency of thePGPF will be observed at the upper, mid, or lower region of the plant roots. Therefore, theprocess which involves the colonization of roots by PGPF may not be a measure for theimprovement of plant growth, which is regarded as a non-homogenous process.PGPF treatment for the blooming of ﬂowers performs an important function in thedevelopment of fruit in agricultural and ornamental plants [ 60]. When tomato and Ara-bidopsis plants were treated with T. harzianum and P . chrysogenum , there came a suddeneffect on the bloom size and numbers of the ﬂowers. Other fungi species such as Phomasp. treatment enhanced the height of cucumber plants and the number of leaves and fruitsproduced in greenhouse experiments [ 61].Rhizoctonia sp.,R. delemar ,T. longibrachiatum ,and non-sporulating fungi improved the produce obtained from different crop plants [ 41].From PGPF, the crude extracts and metabolites extracted have been used to evokeplant growth and to induce resistance against phytopathogen invasion [ 62]. These extractsmay be oligosaccharides, proteins, and sphingolipids that positively impact plant growthcharacteristics. From PGPF, the proteins extracted enhanced the seed quality features preva-lently in pearl millet and musk melon plants, unlike the growth of the control plants [ 63].Likewise, compounds released by PGPF carry out an important function in plant growthand development. The application of terpenoids, a volatile substance obtained from T. wort-mannii and Phoma sp. evokes the growth of tomato plants. The study reveals how theJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 7 of 27compound released by PGPF enhances the growth of lateral roots, stimulates ﬂoweringactivities, and increases the chlorophyll concentration in the leaves [19].2.1.3. Nutrient MineralizationPGPF stimulate enzymes, such as inorganic acids, organic acids, phosphatases, andphytase, for complex organic phosphorous solubilization and mineralization into varioussmall molecules [ 16]. The mineralization of nutrients in the soil mediated by PGPF carriesout a special function in plant growth improvement. It reduces the breakdown of thesubstrate into a soluble molecule that can be assimilated by plants. Phosphorus (P) isan important macroelement that promotes plant growth. Fungus ( Ceriporia lacerata ) wasreported by Sui, et al. [ 64] to solubilize the phosphates by the activity of organic acid andphytase. In addition to this, Aspergillus awamori and Penicillium digitatum were also reportedto solubilize phosphate [ 65]. Moreover, T. viride demonstrated how to promote the contentof P , N, K, and organic carbon in the soil [ 66]. Among the PGPF, Trichoderma sp. wasreported to promote the absorption of minerals and nutrients, mainly, Fe, K, N, and P [ 67].Cyanide is an important secondary metabolite acquired during the early ﬁxed periodof plant development. Various amino acids, including glutamate, cysteine, glycine, andmethionine, are the forerunners in the oxidative decarboxylation processes [ 68].A. niger ,isolated from tomato rhizosphere soils, produces HCN and ammonia that adequatelyenhance the growth of tomato plants [ 69].Trichoderma spp. are known for their potential tohydrolyze ACC into ammonia for plant growth [70].2.1.4. Synergistic Potential of Fungi as Biological Control OrganismsBiocontrol, also known as antagonism, is a process by which rhizospheric microor-ganisms (fungi) inhibit or eradicate the growth of spoilage organisms in plants. The PGPFbiocontrol potential is attributed to the competition for nutrients that the organisms feed on,the production of antibiotics against pathogens, and microbial predation. The process ofantagonism is also attributed to the stimulation of lytic enzymes such as chitinase proteaseand glucanase.The predation potential of PGPF is the initiation of the chitinase gene that reducesthe growth of phytopathogens. Gliocladium virens is an example of a PGPF that producesGliovirin, an antibiotic that inhibits the growth of Pythium ultimum [71]. From the rhizo-spheric soil of a plant, Murali, et al. [ 41] reported how nonpathogenic strains of F. oxysporumwere isolated, thereby restricting the invasion of spoilage organism strains of the sameorganism, Fusarium , through competition for nutrients, the inhibition of chlamydosporegrowth, and contention for space, especially in the roots, where the infection persisted.Moreover, T. harzianum inhibited the growth of the following species of fungi: F. oxyspo-rum,Pythium sp.,R. solani , and other phytopathogens, as reported by [ 72]. Fantastically,various fungi isolated from the rhizosphere of healthy crop plants [ 73] and trees such asthe Moringa tree ( Moringa oleifera ) [10] have displayed antagonistic activities against thegrowth of phytopathogens. Biocontrol activity is not a peculiar measure for the initiation ofresistance. As a result, other PGPF found in the rhizosphere soil do not possess antagonisticproperties that induce resistance in plants against phytopathogenic diseases [ 21,22]. As aresult, there are other features, unlike antagonism, that can carry out various roles in theresistance against phytopathogen invasion.2.1.5. Induced ResistanceInduced resistance (IR) is a distinguished process of promoting the immunity of plants.It is derived after treatment with an elicitor or inducer that acts against biotic stressesconstrained by microbes (Figure 2) that include bacteria, fungi, nematodes, parasites, etc.IR is classiﬁed based on the inducer and the potential to manipulate the route of defensesignaling, and there are two types: induced systemic resistance (ISR) and systemic acquiredresistance (SAR). ISR is a process that involves inhibiting the disease invasion in plantsinvented by certain phytopathogens. The initiation of ISR in plants upon phytopathogenJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 8 of 27attack is consistently revealed in the plant organs that are distanced from the inducingarea [ 62]. On the other hand, the ability of PGPF in the priming of the plant roots doesinduce resistance in the shoots—the upper part of the plant [ 41]. This systematical inductionof resistance upon PGPF treatment is regarded as a safe and effective way to promote thegrowth of crop plants and the cultivation of abundant yield.J. Fungi 2023 , 9, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 28    Figure 2. PGPF and other microbial communities induce re sistance and initiate defense signaling in crop plants. 2.1.6. Defense Mechanisms The important mechanism plant spoilage organisms pass through to enter the host cell is the plant cell wall. PGPF, however, st and to enrich the plant cell defense to avoid the invasion of pathogens via improving the deposition of defensive cell wall components, mainly cellulose, lignin, and phenol. One of the most fundamental problems plants encounter is the invasion of phytopathoge ns. Plants stimulate different forms of mechanisms of defense to resist disease in vasion. The resistance process signifies the stimulation of an allergic reaction (AR) and the biological synthesis of antimicrobials such as phytoalexins that contribute to plant reduction. The AR results in the mortality of plant cells mainly occurring at the point of infection and happens to reduce the proliferation of phytopathogens. The phytopathoge n is resisted during the interaction with the host plant, and brown necrotic spots are observed at the po int of the infection. The basic activity of AR is the immense stimulation of ROS compou nds, amounting to the stimulation of ROS, such as hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2), superoxide, and hydroxyl radicals. In plant cell membranes, the accumulation of H 2O2 is a result of the stimulation of ROS at the point of infection, therefore reducing the proliferation of the phytopathogens [85]. The produced ROS is allergic when produc ed at high concentrations, causing a fatal effect on beneficial microbes and plant cells. Yet, this effect is produced by antioxidant enzymes in that its performance is increased after PGPF introduction following biotic and abiotic stress [56]. Various studies have reported the accumulation of callose during phytopathogen infection, activating resistan ce during the interaction of plants and phytopathogens. The interaction also occurs at  the cost of pretreatment processes with various chemical inducers that activate natural immunity in plants. Kamble, et al. [86] explained how T. harzianum  promoted callose accumulati on in cucumber seedlings. Figure 2. PGPF and other microbial communities induce resistance and initiate defense signaling incrop plants.The treatment of plants with PGPF, such as non-sporulating fungi, Trichoderma spp.,and Penicillium spp., elicits ISR by inhibiting the development of soil-borne phytopathogensin crop plants [ 41]. Puri, et al. [ 74] reported how P . chrysogenum treatment induced systemicresistance to Verticulum wilt in cotton caused by Verticillium dahlia. Elsharkawy, et al. [ 75]revealed in their study how P . simplicissimum induced ISR in cucumber plants. Trichodermasp. has shown its potential to induce ISR on phytopathogen invasion in crop plants [ 76].In tomatoes, T. harzianum and T. viride induced systemic resistance against Botrytis cinerea ,causing grey mold disease [ 77], and Acremonium sclerotigenum treatment was also reportedby Llorens, et al. [78] to induce systemic resistance against P . syringae pv. in tomatoes.Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) is a form of induced resistance that expressesa discrete signal transduction pathway. This pathway is made up of the stimulation ofpathogenesis-related proteins and carries out a particular function in promoting plantdefense against phytopathogens [ 62]. In tomatoes, the stimulation of SAR substantiallyinhibits the prevalence of infections caused by spoilage organisms, including the PGPFMetarhizium brunneum and Beauveria bassiana [79]. Under low nutrition, Trichoderma as-perelloides promotes the effect of acquired resistance in Arabidopsis [41]. Therefore, PGPF-mediated SAR activates an ISR in plants via protein activation against phytopathogens.J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 9 of 27Various metabolites obtained from PGPF effectively contribute to resistance in cropplants. This aspect of elicitor-inducible proteins corresponds to contributing to resistanceto various diseases [ 80]. Certain elicitors such as glycoprotein have been extracted fromP . cinnamomic [81],Cladosporium fulvum [82],C. lindemuthianum , and R. solani [83], whichdisplayed the activity of inducing resistance in crop plants. In tobacco plants, an elicitinprotein extracted from Phytophthora sp. to stimulate defense mechanisms [ 62] and also fromT. virens , a proteinaceous non-enzymatic elicitor, was obtained that effectively activateddefense responses in plants and likewise stimulated induced systemic resistance againstfoliar phytopathogens [ 41]. Strong elicitors such as oligosaccharides were extracted fromPGPF that improve the activation of plant defenses against phytopathogens. Soft rot disease-causing organisms on tomatoes and other crops, F. oxysporum , produce cerebrosides, mainlyglycosphingolipids, which have revealed resistance against wilt and soft rot diseases intomato plants. This cerebroside treatment in greenhouse experiments also inhibited theproliferation of anthracnose disease in chili plants [84].2.1.6. Defense MechanismsThe important mechanism plant spoilage organisms pass through to enter the host cellis the plant cell wall. PGPF, however, stand to enrich the plant cell defense to avoid the inva-sion of pathogens via improving the deposition of defensive cell wall components, mainlycellulose, lignin, and phenol. One of the most fundamental problems plants encounter isthe invasion of phytopathogens. Plants stimulate different forms of mechanisms of defenseto resist disease invasion. The resistance process signiﬁes the stimulation of an allergicreaction (AR) and the biological synthesis of antimicrobials such as phytoalexins that con-tribute to plant reduction. The AR results in the mortality of plant cells mainly occurringat the point of infection and happens to reduce the proliferation of phytopathogens. Thephytopathogen is resisted during the interaction with the host plant, and brown necroticspots are observed at the point of the infection. The basic activity of AR is the immensestimulation of ROS compounds, amounting to the stimulation of ROS, such as hydrogenperoxide (H 2O2), superoxide, and hydroxyl radicals. In plant cell membranes, the accu-mulation of H 2O2is a result of the stimulation of ROS at the point of infection, thereforereducing the proliferation of the phytopathogens [85].The produced ROS is allergic when produced at high concentrations, causing a fataleffect on beneﬁcial microbes and plant cells. Yet, this effect is produced by antioxidantenzymes in that its performance is increased after PGPF introduction following bioticand abiotic stress [ 56]. Various studies have reported the accumulation of callose duringphytopathogen infection, activating resistance during the interaction of plants and phy-topathogens. The interaction also occurs at the cost of pretreatment processes with variouschemical inducers that activate natural immunity in plants. Kamble, et al. [ 86] explainedhow T. harzianum promoted callose accumulation in cucumber seedlings. Likewise, theaccumulation of callose in A. thaliana roots was enhanced by T. harzianum [87]. The treat-ment of pearl millet seedlings with T. hamatum revealed a high concentration of calloseand ligniﬁcation accumulation during the infection period with a downy mildew phy-topathogen [ 86]. The T. atroviride strain was reported to improve the callose accumulationin cucumber plants after the invasion of Rhizoctonia solani [41]. Furthermore, the treatmentof the invasion of Talaromyces funiculosus promoted the accumulation of callose on theexternal layer of C. capsici seedlings. In the phenylalanine or tyrosine metabolic pathway,lignin is produced in plant cells, which carries out the potential activity as a barrier againstphytopathogens [ 88]. It activates defense mechanisms in plants after the phytopathogenhas invaded through the accumulation of lignin on the wall, especially at the point ofphytopathogen invasion.Biochemical DefenseThe congenital immunity of plants against phytopathogen invasion is connected tobiochemical defense mechanisms, unlike structural and histological changes, as biochem-J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 10 of 27ical modiﬁcations take place during the procedure. The associations that occur betweenphytopathogens and the plant host promote modiﬁcations in the metabolism of cells andthe potentials of enzymes, such as -1,3 glucanase, lipoxygenase (LOX), peroxidase (POX),phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), polyphenol oxidase (PPO), and superoxide dismu-tase (SOD) [ 39]. The treatment of seeds with PGPF, such as Aspergillus spp., Fusarium sp.,Rhizoctonia spp., Trichoderma spp., Penicillium spp., Phoma spp., Pythium spp., Talaromycesspp., and non-sporulating fungus, promoted the activity of POX prevalence in fruits suchas cucumbers, chilis millet, and pearls [ 41]. Introduction of Trichoderma spp. promoted theactivities of chitinase and peroxidase in cucumber plants’ leaves and roots [ 89]. The highrate of PPO was a result of beneﬁcial PGPF in the banana plant when F. oxysporum wasintroduced into the plant’s roots [ 41]. The PPO process in cucumber plants increased inlevel after being treated with Phoma spp. and a non-sporulating fungus [ 90]. It has alsobeen observed in the Trichoderma strain, as it increased the PPO enzyme activity in chilis,moong beans, and pigeon peas after being inoculated with Alternaria alternate ,C. capsici ,and F. oxysporum [91].The activity of LOX in pearl millet increased using Trichoderma sp. [ 77], and the col-onization of millet plant roots with these isolates increased the rate of enzymes such aschitinases, peroxidases, and -1-3-glucanases [ 41]. IR revealed how primed expression isaccompanied by defense-related genes after being inoculated with Fusarium oxysporum [92].Upon introduction of Colletotrichum orbiculare with PGPF such as Phoma spp. and non-sporulating fungus, the chitinase activity improved in cucumbers [ 41]. The introduction ofmetabolites obtained from fungi induced defense responses in plants by applying defenseenzymes, such as LOX, PAL, POX, and PPO [93].Defense SignalingVarious defense enzymes, such as signal molecules and PR proteins, are produced inplants to carry out antimicrobial processes during local and systemic defense responses.When PGPF-mediated induced resistance was investigated, the speciﬁc result producedby defense enzymes piled up. Defense responses activated by pathogenic and beneﬁcialmicrobes control the defense response processes, despite the phytohormones ethylene (ET),jasmonate (JA), and salicylic acid (SA) carrying out speciﬁc functions [ 94]. The speciﬁcindication reveals the cross-communication between the phytohormone tracts to proportionthe plant defense responses situated on the phytopathogen invasion. JA or ET systemicresistance was triggered in cucumber plants when treated with T. asperellum and associatedwith the PR gene expression to act against phytopathogen invasion [95].A few studies have revealed the potential of the SA-dependent response after beingtreated with Trichoderma sp. [ 96,97]. The treatment of tomato plants with Trichoderma sp.revealed how the JA-responsive gene expression increases and activates systemic resistanceto inhibit the phytopathogen B. cinerea [96]. Yu, et al. [ 98] showed how Trichoderma sp.,triggering ISR, partakes in ET and JA signaling. Furthermore, the stimulation of bothSA and JA signaling has been reported for a few Trichoderma strains. Some species ofTrichoderma were reported to decompose cellulose in plants following enzyme activities [ 99],which stimulates ISR activities in plants, such as beans, corn, cucumbers, limes, tobacco,etc., by inducing ET or JA defense signaling.2.2. PGPF Improve Crop Production under Abiotic StressPests and diseases are known for their role in reducing cultivation globally, butprobably not as signiﬁcant as the role of abiotic stress. Crop plants undergo abiotic stresswhen the conditions of the environment become extremely strong (Figure 3) comparedto the optimum level for growth and reproduction [ 100]. Biological stress is deﬁned asan environmental factor stimulating the strain in living organisms that have been injured.These biological strains are affected by chemical or physical changes as a result of variousstresses to which the microorganisms have been exposed [ 101]. Most factors contributingto stress in crop plants originate from climatic conditions, such as extreme temperature,J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 11 of 27extreme or no rainfall, radiation, and salinity (mostly common to desert regions where ionsbuild up in the soil).Crop plants undergo problems posed by abiotic stresses. These stresses include highdrought, ﬂoods, salinity, temperature, and heavy metal aggregation that impact crop plants’growth and production. Farmlands undergo some of the abiotic stresses as listed above,reducing crop production to 70%. The changes observed in the climate jeopardize thefuture loss of the production of crops, speciﬁcally cereal crop plants, thereby emanatingchallenges in the food security sector. In the years 1990 to 2013, several farmlands revealeda high saline content (up to 37%), as reported by Waaswa, et al. [ 102]. PGPF have revealedtheir alternative option to improve the growth promotion of plants under these abioticstresses (Figure 1) as a result of root production, solubilization of minerals from fossils,and the production of secondary metabolites. PGPF are embedded in the rhizosphere ofcrop plants. They can improve the immunity of plants and further support plant growthunder stress (Table 2). In tomato plants, T. harzianum promoted the early germinationof seeds and strength with the growth of shoots, weight, and root length under abiotic,biotic, and physiological conditions [ 41]. The growth of cucumber plants is supported byTrichoderma asperellum , which induces siderophore production under salinity conditions.Penicillium spp. has also been reported to tolerate saline conditions in sesame plants [ 103].Trichoderma spp. induced the toleration of abiotic stress potential against biotic pressureinﬂicted by phytopathogens [ 39]. The possibility of drought tolerance in maize plants hasbeen improved by the introduction of T. atroviride with the increased antioxidant enzyme.The introduction of T. harzianum reduces the salinity stress in Indian mustard plants withthe increased antioxidant enzyme. In Theobroma cacao , there was the activation of plantgrowth and improved drought conditions upon treating the plant with T. hamatum .J. Fungi 2023 , 9, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 28    Figure 3. Plant-growth-promoting fungi affect crop pr oduction under biotic and abiotic stresses. The accumulation of heavy metals in Arabidopsis plants showed how PGPF, including Aspergillus , Alternaria , Microsphaeropsis , Mucor , Peyronellaea , Phoma , and Steganosporium,  mitigated heavy metals in the roots of the plants. Ram, et al. [104] revealed how T. harzianum  promotes salinity, the heat shock protein, osmotic pressure, and oxidative stress status in A. thaliana  plants. In N. tabacum  plants, T. virens  increased the cadmium tolerance potential with a decreas ed lipid peroxidation and the promotion of the antioxidant enzyme mechanism [105]. In addition, the drought tolerance potential in N. tabacum  plants increased due to T. harzianum  introduction with an increment in water content with a reduction in the transpiration le vel [106]. Moreover, it increased antibiotic production, mycoparasitism, and antagonism and stimulated ISR. Plants’ cell walls are fortified by PGPF, thereby preventing nutrient loss during abiotic stress [24]. The accumulation of callos e escalated during stress conditions, thereby increasing the plugging of the sieve pores, cell membrane accumulation, and cell wall modification. Lignin is a complex polymer that partakes in plant defense against phytopathogens and pests, and its actions are improved in plants when stimulating the tolerance to various abiotic stresses, such as drought, heavy metals, extreme temperature, and salinity [107]. PGPF have the potential to tolerate salinity conditions due to an increase in sterol content for the alteration of  fatty acid enzymes. So, they are regarded as salt-tolerant and loving microbes due to the underlying osmotic condition. Table 2. Plant-growth-promoting fungi’s potential against abiotic stresses in crop plants. PGPF Crop Plant Action agains t Abiotic Stresses References Fusarium , Gliocladium , Penicillium , Phytophthora , Phoma spp.,  Rhizoctonia , Talaromyces , and  Trichoderma , Oryza sativa  and  Zea mays Stimulate phytohormones, defe nsive compounds, and defense-related enzymes that inhibit phytopathogen invasion, thereby helping the plants against biotic and abiotic stresses [41] Epichloë typhina  and  Curvularia protuberate Solanum lycopersicum  Improve the survival of plants  by reducing the negative impacts of biotic and abiotic stresses, such as drought, salinity, extreme temperatures, heavy me tal toxicity, and oxidative stress [108] Figure 3. Plant-growth-promoting fungi affect crop production under biotic and abiotic stresses.The accumulation of heavy metals in Arabidopsis plants showed how PGPF, includingAspergillus ,Alternaria ,Microsphaeropsis ,Mucor ,Peyronellaea ,Phoma , and Steganosporium ,mitigated heavy metals in the roots of the plants. Ram, et al. [ 104] revealed how T. harzianumpromotes salinity, the heat shock protein, osmotic pressure, and oxidative stress statusinA. thaliana plants. In N. tabacum plants, T. virens increased the cadmium tolerancepotential with a decreased lipid peroxidation and the promotion of the antioxidant enzymeJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 12 of 27mechanism [ 105]. In addition, the drought tolerance potential in N. tabacum plants increaseddue to T. harzianum introduction with an increment in water content with a reduction in thetranspiration level [ 106]. Moreover, it increased antibiotic production, mycoparasitism, andantagonism and stimulated ISR.Plants’ cell walls are fortiﬁed by PGPF, thereby preventing nutrient loss during abioticstress [ 24]. The accumulation of callose escalated during stress conditions, thereby increas-ing the plugging of the sieve pores, cell membrane accumulation, and cell wall modiﬁcation.Lignin is a complex polymer that partakes in plant defense against phytopathogens andpests, and its actions are improved in plants when stimulating the tolerance to variousabiotic stresses, such as drought, heavy metals, extreme temperature, and salinity [ 107].PGPF have the potential to tolerate salinity conditions due to an increase in sterol contentfor the alteration of fatty acid enzymes. So, they are regarded as salt-tolerant and lovingmicrobes due to the underlying osmotic condition.Table 2. Plant-growth-promoting fungi’s potential against abiotic stresses in crop plants.PGPF Crop Plant Action against Abiotic Stresses ReferencesFusarium ,Gliocladium ,Penicillium ,Phytophthora ,Phoma spp., Rhizoctonia ,Talaromyces , and Trichoderma ,Oryza sativa and Zea maysStimulate phytohormones, defensivecompounds, and defense-related enzymes thatinhibit phytopathogen invasion, thereby helpingthe plants against biotic and abiotic stresses[41]Epichloë typhina andCurvularia protuberateSolanum lycopersicumImprove the survival of plants by reducing thenegative impacts of biotic and abiotic stresses,such as drought, salinity, extreme temperatures,heavy metal toxicity, and oxidative stress[108]Cunninghamella bertholletiae Solanum lycopersicumInhibit the occurrence of salinity, drought, andheavy metal stresses[109]Arbuscular mycorrhizae Triticum spp.Improve stress tolerance, thereby contributing tothe plant growth[24]Arbuscular mycorrhizal Pinus edulisCarry out a particular function in reducingabiotic stresses, therefore enhancingplant growth[110]Trichoderma virens Ceratocystis paradoxaBiologically control pathogens, such as Fusariumverticillioides ,Colletotrichum falcatum ,Ceratocystisparadoxa , and Xanthomonas albilineans , intolerance of abiotic stresses[111]Arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi Melissa ofﬁcinalisDrought stress was controlled by the fungi afterbeing inoculated by promoting photosyntheticmaterials, proline content, relative water content(RWC), etc. Improved plant tolerance andthereby supported the development of plants.[112]Trichoderma spp.Solanum lycopersicum andZea maysThese fungi are parasitic and saprophytic,residing in the rhizosphere. They help plantsovercome abiotic stresses, such as cold, drought,heat, and salinity[113]Piriformospora indicaTrigonellafoenum-graecumThe fungus revealed positive effects in themitigation of salinity stress in fenugreek plantsand improved various growth responses[114]AMF Triticum aestivumAMF controls the plant proteome under ﬁeldconditions. The interaction of bacteria and fungirevealed proteins employing STRING thatinteract with various proteins to partake in seeddevelopment and toleration of abiotic factors[115]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 13 of 27Table 2. Cont.PGPF Crop Plant Action against Abiotic Stresses ReferencesFunneliformis geosporum ,Rhizophagus irregularis , andClaroideoglomus claroideumCicer arietinumThe introduction of PGPF and an artiﬁcialsupply of water at a vital level improvedchickpea growth and produced an abundantgrain harvest compared to uninoculated plantswithout water stress[116]AMF Medicinal and aromatic plantsThe fungi can help mitigate abioticenvironmental stresses, such as water stress, saltstress, and low and high temperatures[117]Saccharomyces cerevisiae Arabidopsis thalianaThe fungi are known as biostimulants and canassist crops in withstanding abiotic stresses, suchas drought, salinity, or cold[118]Serendipita indica Zea maysThe fungi improve plant growth managementunder abiotic stress conditions[119]PGPF Potential against Heavy Metal ContaminationSome abiotic factors, including heavy metal contamination, climate change, droughtstress, extreme temperature, etc., affect the development of PGPF and the mycorrhizalassociation with crop plants. In most cases, the presence of these microorganisms can reducestresses prone to crop plants due to these abiotic factors. We aimed at the potential of heavychemical concentrations in the soil to cause pollution., such as ineffective mining activities,handling of sewage sludge, other industrial efﬂuents released into the surrounding soil,and misuse of heavy-metal-containing fertilizers on farmlands. Other activities by whichheavy chemicals accumulate in the environment include gas exhausts, among other factors,which lead to the accumulation of heavy metals, organic pollutants, and radionuclidesin the soil and surrounding environment. This toxicity causes harm to human healthand the ecosystem at large [ 120] and cannot only be treated strictly or levity, but insteadshould be attended to in a way that can modify the potential of any danger due to thepollution of the food chain and nearby rivers by wind erosion. The induction of microbialcommunities inhabiting the rhizosphere by plant roots has been brought to notice. Thepotential of microbial communities is a signiﬁcant factor, contributing to the solubilityof metals and as immobilizers of soil metals as a result of hydrated ferric oxides and theprecipitation of sulﬁdes or complex sugar (polysaccharides) exudation [ 121]. On the surfaceof fungal cell walls, the functional groups perform a signiﬁcant task in the adsorption ofmetals from the soil [ 122]. Considering other features, Cu, Pb, and Zn can be obtainedfrom oxides or carbonates through the potential microbial communities [ 123]. Pollutantscan be eradicated from the soil environment via biological means by using PGPF, PGPR,and Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) [ 48]. The symbiotic associations of AM or PGPF withcrop plants improve the evolution of plants in heavy-metal-contaminated areas by thefollowing processes: phytohormone production, pathogenic resistance, nutrient acquisition,water relations, amelioration of the soil structure, and contribution to soil aggregationand therefore promote bioremediation processes. For example, PGPF and AMF have beenreported to reduce caesium assimilation by plants [ 124] and therefore could be employedin the production of plantations on soil contaminated with radionuclides and so possessthe ability to decrease danger caused to the environment. PGPF and AMF also possess theability to monitor the toxicity of the soil [ 16] and its effectiveness. The application of AMFfeatures as a sign of changes happening during soil restoration and a tool for biologicalobservation of the soil quality. The stages of colonization of grasses in polluted soil ﬁeldshave been revealed to correspond with heavy metal contamination [125].J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 14 of 272.3. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Potential in the Rhizosphere of Crop PlantsArbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have been reported to contribute to nutrientuptake in plants and tolerate abiotic stress [ 24]. AMF commence a symbiotic associationwith the host plants they inhabit and regulate the development of crop plants. The networkof AMF mycelial broadens under the roots of crop plants, promoting nutrient uptake [ 126].The common mycorrhizal network (CMN) has a greater effect on plants on the fungal-mediated transport of N and P and thereby promotes the development of crop plantsfollowing strenuous states of the environment [ 24]. AMF have also displayed their adap-tation in plants when exposed to various conditions of habitats, especially those affectedby abiotic stresses, such as drought, chilling, salinity, high temperature, heavy metals, andﬂooding [ 127]. It has been reported that two forms of fungi are implored in stress tolerance,and they are AMF and ectomycorrhiza fungi (EMF), reported by Koza, et al. [ 24]. AMFdwelled in the host plants without effecting danger and were known to elicit the tolerationof various stresses. Redman, et al. [ 128] explained how the toleration of abiotic stressescould be stimulated via utilizing the endophytic AMF that survive in mutual associationswith about 80% of plants. Furthermore, AMF have been reported to contribute to theimprovement of salt tolerance, employing various methods which constitute regulating therate of K+/Na+in plant cells, the production of growth hormones, the development of therhizosphere and other soil conditions, the transfer of ion salts to the vacuoles, and, likewise,the promotion of photosynthetic water use effectiveness [ 129]. Furthermore, AMF improvesalt stress activities by improving the amount of sugar and electrolytes and thus performthe role of osmoregulation [ 130]. Another investigation showed how AMF stimulate thetolerance to salt stress by upregulating the antioxidant potential via activation of the plantglutathione–ascorbate cycle. The symbiotic association of AMF has also been revealed topromote salt resistance in crop plants, such as tomatoes, lettuce, clovers, cucumbers, andmaize [ 130]. AMF-stimulated tolerance has been revealed as a usual characteristic of abioticstress tolerance in drought-stressed plants.3. Crop Plants Establish Beneﬁcial Microbes in the RhizosphereThe roots of the crop plants secrete primary metabolites, such as amino acids, carbohy-drates, organic acids, glucosinolates, and vitamins, and secondary metabolites, includingalkaloids, ﬂavonoids, phenolics, sulfur-containing compounds, and terpenoids, which areknown to build, signal, and interact with the rhizosphere microﬂora. This exudation in thesoil at the root region is made up of an abundant mixture of chemicals obtained at an impor-tant rate of carbon and nitrogen for the crop plants’ growth and health status. The exudateshave a greater advantage of attracting and increasing the beneﬁcial microbial communities,while destroying pathogenic organisms by inhibiting their growth and invasion [131].The rhizosphere microbiota likewise help plants to adapt to their speciﬁc environment,and the inhabitation of speciﬁc microbiomes in the rhizosphere is known as niche coloniza-tion [ 132]. The signiﬁcance of the rhizosphere microbiome, otherwise known as rhizobiome,is considered to depend on the chemical exudates, which also promote mutual activitythrough signaling molecules that are stimulated and secreted by plants and microbes.Scientiﬁc investigations have focused on PGPR but are turning to the potential of PGPFand protists that give room for the production of more rhizobiomes in the future. Plantsignaling and the impact of the rhizobiome chemistry are still understudied. Researcherssometimes refer to this point by employing a lot of terminologies such as complex plant–microbe interactions, rhizosphere chemical language, rhizosphere interactions, and plantsignaling [133].The recruiting and colonization of the rhizobiome by the rhizosphere chemistry canoccur following two general processes. First, through induction by the rhizodeposits or rootexudates produced by microbial biomass inhabiting the rhizosphere of the crop plants [ 134].This is a special route for shaping, recruiting, and tuning microbial communities fromthe source of microbes in the soil, constituting the methods that disallow, support, or endJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 15 of 27microbial multiplication. However, we believe that this crucial function of chemicals ininvestigating rhizosphere residents cannot be regarded as signaling.The second process affecting the rhizobiome takes place through the sensing andresponse to plants or microbe compounds of low molecular weight [ 135], leading to acellular reaction(s) that is curtailed by the substance being perceived through the followingprocesses: catabolism, transformation, resistance, etc. This constitutes a restrictive cascadethat eventually results in the transcription of loci in reaction to a speciﬁc compound. Themajor type of signaling is divided into three mechanisms known to take place in therhizosphere, and they are:Quorum sensing (QS)—microbial intraspecies and interspecies signaling that allowsfor cell-to-cell signaling or communication, i.e., PGPR or PGPF, to share informationabout cell biomass or density and regulate gene expression. The signal molecules permitmicroorganisms to multiply and modify their behavior;Signaling from plants to microorganisms through plant-secreted materials that havebeen revealed in quite a lot of specialized symbiotic associations and most probably takeplace often in other interactions;Signaling from microbial communities to plants referenced so far by compoundsproduced by microbes participating in plant defense responses, plant gene expression, androot development.Plant Signaling and Impacts on Rhizobiomes Contributing to Crop Plants’ GrowthThe association of crop plants and PGPF involves the interchange of signal moleculeswith each other. This ﬁrst interchange forms the identiﬁcation of the beﬁtting partnerand carries out an integral function in producing a successful association. Plant reactionsto the microbial relation change into greater changes in physiological state, biochemicalreactions, and metabolic adjustments [ 136]. Due to modern advancements in molecularbiology in the beneﬁcial association of plant–microbe interactions, some factors of the signaltransduction pathways have been characterized. Therefore, plant signaling pathways resultin improved plant growth due to PGPF depending on endogenous regulators, such asauxin, ethylene (ET), and cytokinin (CK). Gibberellin (GA) and abscisic acid (ABA) areother phytohormones representing other forms of signaling components that promote theinteractions of beneﬁcial plants and PGPF (Table 3).The association of crop plants and PGPF can use direct or indirect methods: either theplant organs (roots) in the rhizosphere soil or above the soil (shoots). The reported effectsare the development of root hairs, improved biomass production, ﬂowering, and increasedproduction. A study reported how T. virens introduced into wild-type Arabidopsis seedlingsrevealed biomass production and the development of lateral roots [ 137]. The inoculatedplants demonstrated the activity of auxin-regulated genes. Despite mutations anticipated tooccur in the genes that take part in auxin signaling, AUX1 ,AXR1 ,BIG, and EIR1 inhibitedthe plant-growth-promoting and root developmental characteristics of T. virens introducedto Arabidopsis. The investigation showed that the plant growth promotion by T. virensfunctions via the standard auxin effect pathway. Similarly, another study revealed the effectsof treatment with IAA; thus, IAA was noted to relieve the spoiled root hair phenotype oftherhd6 mutant [ 137]. The results obtained showed that microbial auxin may contribute toinhibiting the root hair formation defects of rhd6. So, auxin is a major signaling componentin the association of plant and microbial communities.Another phytohormone that is essential for plant growth and development is ethylene(ET), which occurs in a gaseous state. This phytohormone also responds to environmentalsignals [138].Barazani, et al. [ 139] reported how the N. attenuata plant was changed to silenceET stimulation; improved plant growth activity by the fungus was not obtained. Thedifferential stimulation of genes associated with ET biosynthesis and signaling in the rootsof barley plants inhabited by the endophytic fungus Pi. indica was revealed by a DNAmicroarray-based gene expression procedure [ 140]. Mutant strains etr1,ein2, and ein3/eil1J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 16 of 27were destroyed in the ET signaling pathway and demonstrated a reduction in growth andseedling responses by this fungus, unlike the wild type. This showed the potential ofET signaling in the advantageous association between the two symbionts [ 141]. So, theproposition that ET signaling contributes to plant growth by fungal inhabitation on barleyplant roots is obvious.Some volatile organic compounds (VOCs) produced by PGPF otherwise control thedevelopment of crop plants, and the signaling pathways interceding VOC sensing are notfully apprehensible. From Trichoderma spp., the prima biological antifungal VOC isolatedwas 6-pentyl-2H-pyran-2-one (6-PP) [ 142], which stimulates A. thaliana root growth throughauxin signaling and the ET response modulator EIN2 [ 143]. Hashem, et al. [ 144] proclaimedthat cytokinin (CK) signaling performs speciﬁc functions in growth improvement whensubjected to Bacillus subtilis GB03 VOCs. CKs are signiﬁcant for the stimulation of Pi. indicagrowth improvements in Arabidopsis [ 145]. Furthermore, in effect to Pi. indica establish-ment, the ABA pathway was suggested to improve plant growth through protein kinases,cellular [Ca2+] increments, and phosphoinositides [ 146]. The manufactured additionalphytohormones by PGPF are gibberellin (GA) and brassinosteroids [ 147]. On a short note,phytohormone signaling shows how it participates in producing compatible associations(symbiosis) between PGPF and plant hosts, which lead to growth improvements andabundant biomass.Table 3. PGPF mechanisms in relation to crop plant growth and development.Mechanisms PGPF Activities ReferencesPhytohormone productionActinomucor elegans andPodospora bulbillosaPromote the ability to withstand waterdeﬁciency and salinity stresses intomato plants[56]Trichoderma aureoviride TaN16,Penicillium citrinum PcK10, andAspergillus niger AnK1These PGPF possess the potential to produceIAA that contributes to the growth of the plant[148]Penicillium spp., Clonostachys spp.,Trichoderma spp.,Purpureocillium spp.,Aspergillus spp., Taifanglania spp.,and Trichoderma spp.The mentioned strains can producesiderophores and IAA thereby contributing toplant growth fromleguminous–manure-incorporated soil andnon-leguminous–manure-incorporated soil[52]Cladosporium cladosporioides ,Penicillium simplicissimum , andCladosporium pseudocladosporioidesThe PGPF strains were reported to produceIAA and siderophore hormones[49]Aspergillus fumigatusThe fungus was reported to produce IAA toenhance the growth of rice plants[149]Phosphate solubilizationTrichoderma harzianum TaK12 andTrichoderma aureoviride TaN16The PGPF contribute to the growth of riceplants by solubilizing phosphorus[148]Penicillium spp., Trichoderma spp.,Purpureocillium spp.,Taifanglania spp., andAspergillus spp.The mentioned PGPF involve phosphatesolubilization in green and non-greenmanure soil[52]Penicillium chrysogenumThe strain was recorded to solubilizephosphate in wheat growth under lownitrogen input[150]Cladosporium cladosporioides andPenicillium simplicissimumThe fungi solubilize phosphate inVicia villosa Roth[49]Penicillium spp. Solubilize phosphate [151]Inhibition ofphytopathogensA. ﬂavus ,Mucor circinelloides ,A. niger , and P . oxalicumThe PGPF displayed great potential in theinhibition of phytopathogens in tomato plants[15]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 17 of 27Table 3. Cont.Mechanisms PGPF Activities ReferencesChaetosphaeronema achilleae ,Acrophialophora levis , andPenicillium chrysogenumThey were reported to suppress the growth ofthe phytopathogen Alternaria alternate inwheat plants[150]Trichoderma viride andPenicillium chrysogenumBiocontrol spoilage organism of orange fruits [10]Pyrenophora spp., Sordaria spp., andPenicillium spp.The fungi were reported to be present in therhizosphere of tomato plants, improving thehealth status of tomatoes byinhibiting phytopathogens[7]Aspergillus ﬂavusThe fungus produces biocontrol agents, acetate,linalool, linalyl geranyl acetate, oleic acid,1-eicosanol, and 1-chloro-octadecane, thatinhibit the growth of phytopathogenic fungi onT. foenum-graecum ,S. lycopersicum ,P . oleracea ,and L. sativum[152]Mitigation of abiotic stress Cunninghamella bertholletiaeThe fungus was reported to inhibit abioticstresses, heavy metal, drought, and salinity, intomato plants[109]Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi(AMF)Carry out an important role in alleviatingabiotic stresses[110]Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi(AMF)Mitigate the abiotic conditions of crop plants [24]__The PGPF mitigated drought stress affectingcrop plants[153]Penicillium olsoniiThe fungus was acquired from the rhizosphereofA. littoralis , which increases plant growthand tolerates salinity andextreme temperatures[154]Volatile organiccompounds (VOCs)Trichoderma harzianum ,T. Hamatum ,and T. velutinumThese PGPF have been reported to produceVOCs to induce plant responses[155]Trichoderma spp.VOCs in biological control agents A. panax ,B. cinerea ,C. destructans , and S. nivalis andpromotes plant growth[156]Trichoderma spp.VOCs produced by PGPF, together with PGPactivity, can control spoilage organisms in therhizosphere by antifungal and antibacterialpotentials and have long-range controlpotentials as a result of their volatile nature[157]Trichoderma asperellumThe fungus produces antifungal andantibacterial agents such as xylanase, cellulase,pectinase, protease, and chitinase[158]4. Formulation of PGPF, Their Application, and Their Effect on Crop Plants4.1. Formulation of PGPFPGPF, most importantly Trichoderma spp., have many advantages as a plant-growth-promoting agents and are known to have a lot of uses in commercial formulations. Differentorganic and inorganic carrier molecules have been investigated for efﬁcient features ofbioinoculants. From T. harzianum , a talc-based formulation was produced to provideconcentrated biomass of conidial of the fungus with increased colony forming units (CFU)for a long time [ 159]. The concentrated formulation made available the added beneﬁt ofsmaller packaging for keeping and conveying, and low product cost as compared to otherJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 18 of 27carriers, such as charcoal, cow dung, sawdust, and vermiculite. The application of seeds forthe formulation revealed absolute improvements in promoting growth in chickpeas [160].Corn, cassava peel, ground nut husks, and sugarcane bagasse have been employedas carriers for Trichoderma sp. inoculants [ 161]. The corn formulation produced a drasticimprovement in the root length of rice seedlings, wet weight, and biomass, unlike theinoculum introduced with sugarcane bagasse and the control [ 162]. A formulation in theform of ﬂowable powder was produced for biostimulant Trichoderma strain dry spraysemploying a CO 2-producing dispersant system based on citric acid, sodium bicarbonate,and polyacrylic acid with lecithin and polyvinyl alcohol employed as adhesives and theformer as a wetting agent [ 163]. Hydrolytic amino acids have also been reported to bederived from dead pigs to prepare T. harzianum and used as biofertilizers. The biofertilizerproduced contributed to higher densities of T. harzianum and promoted plant growth whenutilized as a soil improvement. Compost manure was obtained from cow dung from whichTrichoderma biofertilizers were manufactured and applied to the agricultural ﬁeld [ 164].The ﬁeld in which the biofertilizer had been applied displayed bountiful harvests and wasmore productive than agricultural soil in which biofertilizers were not introduced [ 165].Another efﬁcient formulation was produced from Piriformospora indica , which was manu-factured from talcum powder (vermiculite) with 20% moisture. In glasshouse experiments,these formulations carried out substantial improvements as bioinoculants compared tovermiculite-based formulations [ 166]. These reveal the possibility for biofertilizers formu-lated from PGPF to contribute to the development of the agricultural system as well asimprove crop productivity.4.2. Application and Effect of PGPF on Crop PlantsMicrobial communities coexist in inter-relationships with the roots of crop plants.Plant-growth-promoting microorganisms (PGPMs) have been employed in the stimulationof resistance in plants against pathogen invasion aside from promoting the development ofcrop plants [ 7]. The introduction of these microbes is one of the ecologically friendly man-agement methods of disease that is durable as a result of the stimulation of innate immunityin plants. Few studies have explained how PGPF, in comparison to PGPR, obtain their effec-tiveness in the stimulation of resistance against the invasion of pathogens [167–169] . PGPFare nonpathogenic, they occur naturally as saprophytes that feed on dead organic matter,they assist in maintaining soil fertility, and as a result, they promote plant growth andstimulate the defense response against phytopathogen attacks [ 16]. The potential of PGPFto colonize roots is regarded as the ﬁrst mechanism required in preventing phytopathogeninvasion and likewise assists in the assimilation of nutrients, therefore improving plantgrowth [ 16]. The potential of PGPF involves phosphate solubilization, IAA production,siderophore production, enzyme (cellulase and chitinase) production, etc., either directlyor indirectly, to promote plant growth, apart from stimulating disease resistance [24].As a matter of the advantageous value of PGPF in the agricultural system, scientistshave drawn their concentration on the employment of PGPF for stimulating inhibition viaISR and promoting plant growth in crop plants [ 170]. ISR produced by PGPF in plantstakes part in modifying cell walls via callose, lignin, and phenol accumulation, whichreduces their income and also prevents the growth and multiplication of the intrudingphytopathogens [ 151]. Aside from changes that occur in the cell walls of plants, PGPFalso initiate the improved collection of defense-associated enzymes in crop plants ( -1,3glucanase, chitinase, peroxidases (POX), phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), etc.) that areproportionally associated to protective methods against phytopathogens [171].5. PGPF as an Alternative to Chemical Derivatives in Crop PlantationsChemical derivatives, including fungicides, herbicides, and pesticides, can be classiﬁedbased on their applications to combat organisms causing disease, invasion of plants, andtheir chemical nature. These derivatives are used in agriculture to confer protection to cropsfrom crop pests, insects, and unwanted plants (weeds). The chemicals are also applied inJ. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 19 of 27public health to eradicate disease, causal vectors, and to kill insects such as cockroaches,mosquitoes, aphids, termites, etc. The chemical derivatives are classiﬁed into differentgroups based on their potential action. For example, chemical derivatives targeting insectsare insecticides, those targeting fungi and various mycotoxins produced by fungi arefungicides, those applied to remove weeds are herbicides, and those used against rodents(rats) are called rodenticides. Those employed to control the existence of insects such asbugs, aphids, and other pests are fumigants, and insect repellents are mostly applied onthe skin and/or clothing to prevent insects. Based on the nature of chemicals, they can beclassiﬁed as benzoic acid derivatives, benzonitriles, carbamates, dipyrids, organochlorines,organophosphates, phenoxyalkonates, phenyl amides, phtalimide derivatives, trazines,and pyrethroids [172].As much as these chemicals are effective in carrying out their primary assignment oferadicating unwanted organisms, they also pose a threat to crop plants, man, animals, andthe environment they are applied to, thereby causing various hazards and depriving healthyconditions because of the toxic accumulation in the tissue of crops, man, and animalsfeeding on them [ 173]. For this reason, scientists have diverged to creating affordable andecofriendly means of controlling phytopathogens and various plant diseases.PGPF have demonstrated various antagonistic activities against all forms of phy-topathogens and diseases of plants. Aside from their antagonistic potential, they alsosupport the growth of such plants and act against abiotic conditions (Figure 2, Table 2)that can hamper the healthy status of plants. Antagonism, referred to as ‘biocontrol’, isa process by which living organisms are employed to mitigate or inhibit the growth of aphytopathogen population [ 174]. These microorganisms are ecofriendly in nature, i.e., theydo not cause harm to man or animals while consuming the crops and the environment theylive in. The studies discussed within the context showed that Trichoderma spp. has beenused as a biocontrol agent in controlling various phytopathogens of crop plants. Theseorganisms are primarily found in the rhizosphere region of healthy plants, where theycontrol the invasion of disease-causing organisms (Table 1). Rojas-S ánchez, et al. [ 124]explained how PGPF dwells in root cells, root surfaces, and the outer layers of root cells. DePalma, et al. [ 157] reported how Trichoderma spp. can be introduced into plant roots duringthe seedling stage of plant growth to ensure a beneﬁcial relationship in improving plants’health and preventing disease invasion. The basic procedure for the biocontrol potentialofTrichoderma spp. against pathogens is as follows: identiﬁcation and colonization ofplant pathogenic fungal species via disruption of the pathogenic cell wall and assimilationof secreted nutrients, referred to as mycoparasitism [ 16], eliciting the resistance againstdiseases by altering the plant roots during confrontation with the phytopathogens [ 175],and inhibition of root-knot disease and cyst nematodes by eliminating the nematode eggs,juvenile stages, and adult nematodes.The formulation products of Trichoderma spp. are produced in granules or a wettablepowder. Majorly, 90% of the strains of Trichoderma spp. are employed in crop protectionto control plant diseases through antagonistic features elicited by the fungi against phy-topathogens [ 176]. The potential of their application as a BCA on farmland is estimated onthe input cost and proportion to the production of crops. The application of BCA is notexpensive and is easy to handle, unlike synthetic chemical derivatives [ 177]. Farmers canmake use of synthetic chemicals because of their low cost, but they cannot avail abundantharvests and healthy crop production similar to BCA. So, they observed huge economiclosses when crop production and input costs were not balanced. Therefore, Trichodermaspp. and other PGPF are known for enhancing crop productivity, which amounts to animprovement in revenue. The appropriate application of BCA (PGPF) on farmland canreduce and substitute chemical fertilizers. To maintain soil health, the application of PGPFhas contributed to a sustainable approach. Scientists have studied how PGPF inhibit thegrowth of phytopathogens, as discussed in this review.J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 20 of 276. ConclusionsPGPF and their associations are deliberately different, and various factors contributeto their plant health activities. The scientiﬁc results express the importance of rhizosphericplant-growth-promoting fungi that reveal the potential to favor crop plant growth anddevelopment. The application of PGPF bioformulations has helped reduce the problemsencountered in the production of crops and the endeavor of pest-free crops with no orminimal applications of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. This review portrays howthe rhizospheric microbiome (PGPF) can improve the sustainability of agricultural prod-ucts and soil fertility. However, comprehensive studies based on the attributes of PGPFcontributing to the growth of crop plants and productivity are still in their infancy. So,it is important to examine some of the activities carried out by PGPF in plant–microbeinteractions for incorporating microbiota in the improvement of sustainable agriculture forcrop production and protection.Recent progress in biotechnological implements and dependable change could beuseful in the production of the PGPF to bestow beneﬁcial attributes to crop plants. Ge-netic change and upregulation of plant-growth-promoting traits that perform synergisticactivities may produce improved functions by the inoculant. Studies can be employedperiodically to measure the genetic stability and ecological preservation of the geneticallymodiﬁed strain. Therefore, PGPF reveal potential in contributing to plant growth via theextensive improvement of basic process operating industries.Author Contributions: A.A.A. suggested the review topic; A.A.A. performed the literature searchand wrote the ﬁrst draft; O.O.B. conceived the idea of the article and signiﬁcantly improved theorganization of the successive iterations of the work, both technically and intellectually; A.A.A. andO.O.B. edited the review draft and contributed professionally to the manuscript. All authors haveread and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: The National Research Foundation of South Africa Grants (UID132595).Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not available.Acknowledgments: Due acknowledgment goes to the National Research Foundation of South Africagrant (UID132595) for the funding support granted to OOB.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Henchion, M.; Moloney, A.P .; Hyland, J.; Zimmermann, J.; McCarthy, S. Review: Trends for meat, milk and egg consumptionfor the next decades and the role played by livestock systems in the global production of proteins. Animal 2021 ,15, 100287.[CrossRef] [PubMed]2. Munaweera, T.I.K.; Jayawardana, N.U.; Rajaratnam, R.; Dissanayake, N. Modern plant biotechnology as a strategy in addressingclimate change and attaining food security. Agric. Food Secur. 2022 ,11, 26. [CrossRef]3. Giller, K.E.; Delaune, T.; Silva, J.V .; Descheemaeker, K.; Van De Ven, G.; Schut, A.G.T.; Van Wijk, M.; Hammond, J.; Hochman, Z.;Taulya, G.; et al. The future of farming: Who will produce our food? Food Secur. 2021 ,13, 1073–1099. [CrossRef]4. Van Dijk, M.; Morley, T.; Rau, M.L.; Saghai, Y. A meta-analysis of projected global food demand and population at risk of hungerfor the period 2010–2050. Nat. Food 2021 ,2, 494–501. [CrossRef]5. Tian, X.; Engel, B.A.; Qian, H.; Hua, E.; Sun, S.; Wang, Y. Will reaching the maximum achievable yield potential meet future globalfood demand? J. Clean. Prod. 2021 ,294, 126285. [CrossRef]6. Adedayo, A.A.; Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O. Plant Health Status Affects the Functional Diversity of the Rhizosphere MicrobiomeAssociated With Solanum lycopersicum .Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2022 ,6, 894312. [CrossRef]7. Adedayo, A.A.; Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O. The Effects of Plant Health Status on the Community Structure and MetabolicPathways of Rhizosphere Microbial Communities Associated with Solanum lycopersicum .Horticulturae 2022 ,8, 404. [CrossRef]8. Sun, Z.; Yu, S.; Hu, Y.; Wen, Y. Biological Control of the Cucumber Downy Mildew Pathogen Pseudoperonospora cubensis .Horticulturae 2022 ,8, 410. [CrossRef]9. Selvakumar, R.; Kalia, P . Genomic Designing for Biotic Stress Resistance in Carrot ( Daucus carota L.). In Genomic Designing for BioticStress Resistant Vegetable Crops ; Kole, C., Ed.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2022; pp. 301–343. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 21 of 2710. Omomowo, I.O.; Adedayo, A.A.; Omomowo, O.I. Biocontrol Potential of Rhizospheric Fungi from Moringa oleifera , theirPhytochemicals and Secondary Metabolite Assessment Against Spoilage Fungi of Sweet Orange ( Citrus sinensis ).Asian J. Appl.Sci.2020 ,8, 35–48. [CrossRef]11. Mousa, M.A.A.; Abo-Elyousr, K.A.M.; Abdel Alal, A.M.K.; Alshareef, N.O. Management Fusarium Wilt Disease in Tomato byCombinations of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Peppermint Oil. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 2536. [CrossRef]12. Morales-Rabanales, Q.N.; Coyotl-P érez, W.A.; Rubio-Rosas, E.; Cortes-Ram írez, G.S.; S ánchez Ram írez, J.F.; Villa-Ruano, N.Antifungal properties of hybrid ﬁlms containing the essential oil of Schinus molle : Protective effect against postharvest rot oftomato. Food Control 2022 ,134, 108766. [CrossRef]13. Nehela, Y.; Taha, N.A.; Elzaawely, A.A.; Xuan, T.D.; Amin, M.A.; Ahmed, M.E.; El-Nagar, A. Benzoic Acid and Its HydroxylatedDerivatives Suppress Early Blight of Tomato ( Alternaria solani ) via the Induction of Salicylic Acid Biosynthesis and Enzymatic andNonenzymatic Antioxidant Defense Machinery. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 663. [CrossRef]14. Bukhari, S.A.R.; Saeed, M.; Briddon, R.W. Use of CRISPR/Cas System to Create Resistance to Cotton Diseases. In Cotton PrecisionBreeding ; Rahman, M.-u., Zafar, Y., Zhang, T., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2021; pp. 329–350.15. Attia, M.S.; Abdelaziz, A.M.; Al-Askar, A.A.; Arishi, A.A.; Abdelhakim, A.M.; Hashem, A.H. Plant Growth-Promoting Fungi asBiocontrol Tool against Fusarium Wilt Disease of Tomato Plant. J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 775. [CrossRef]16. Malgioglio, G.; Rizzo, G.F.; Nigro, S.; Lefebvre Du Prey, V .; Herforth-Rahm é, J.; Catara, V .; Branca, F. Plant-Microbe Interaction inSustainable Agriculture: The Factors That May Influence the Efficacy of PGPM Application. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 2253. [CrossRef]17. Kuzin, A.; Solovchenko, A.; Stepantsova, L.; Pugachev, G. Soil fertility management in apple orchard with microbial bio-fertilizers.E3S Web Conf. 2020 ,222, 03020. [CrossRef]18. Cantabella, D.; Dolcet-Sanjuan, R.; Casanovas, M.; Solsona, C.; Torres, R.; Teixid ó, N. Inoculation of in vitro cultures withrhizosphere microorganisms improve plant development and acclimatization during immature embryo rescue in nectarine andpear breeding programs. Sci. Hortic. 2020 ,273, 109643. [CrossRef]19. Syamsia, S.; Idhan, A.; Firmansyah, A.P .; Noerfitryani, N.; Rahim, I.; Kesaulya, H.; Armus, R. Combination on endophytic fungal asthe Plant Growth-Promoting Fungi (PGPF) on cucumber ( Cucumis sativus ).Biodiversitas J. Biol. Divers. 2021 ,22, 1194–1202. [CrossRef]20. Pandit, M.A.; Kumar, J.; Gulati, S.; Bhandari, N.; Mehta, P .; Katyal, R.; Rawat, C.D.; Mishra, V .; Kaur, J. Major Biological ControlStrategies for Plant Pathogens. Pathogens 2022 ,11, 273. [CrossRef]21. Akinola, S.A.; Babalola, O.O. The fungal and archaeal community within plant rhizosphere: A review on their contribution tocrop safety. J. Plant Nutr. 2020 ,44, 600–618. [CrossRef]22. Shasmita; Swain, B.B.; Mohapatra, P .K.; Naik, S.K.; Mukherjee, A.K. Biopriming for induction of disease resistance againstpathogens in rice. Planta 2022 ,255, 113. [CrossRef]23. Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola, O.O.; Prigent-Combaret, C.; Cruz, C.; Stefan, M.; Kutu, F.; Glick, B.R. The application of plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria in Solanum lycopersicum production in the agricultural system: A review. PeerJ 2022 ,10, e13405.[CrossRef] [PubMed]24. Koza, N.; Adedayo, A.; Babalola, O.; Kappo, A. Microorganisms in Plant Growth and Development: Roles in Abiotic StressTolerance and Secondary Metabolites Secretion. Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528. [CrossRef] [PubMed]25. Mulani, R.; Mehta, K.; Saraf, M.; Goswami, D. Decoding the mojo of plant-growth-promoting microbiomes. Physiol. Mol. PlantPathol. 2021 ,115, 101687. [CrossRef]26. Igiehon, N.O.; Babalola, O.O. Below-ground-above-ground Plant-microbial Interactions: Focusing on Soybean, Rhizobacteria andMycorrhizal Fungi. Open Microbiol. J. 2018 ,12, 261–279. [CrossRef]27. Liu, D.; P érez-Moreno, J.; He, X.; Garibay-Orijel, R.; Yu, F.; McMahon, K. Trufﬂe Microbiome is Driven by Fruit Body Compart-mentalization Rather than Soils Conditioned by Different Host Trees. mSphere 2021 ,6, e00039-21. [CrossRef]28. Emmanuel, O.C.; Babalola, O.O. Productivity and quality of horticultural crops through co-inoculation of arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi and plant growth promoting bacteria. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,239, 126569. [CrossRef]29. Sagar, A.; Rai, S.; Ilyas, N.; Sayyed, R.Z.; Al-Turki, A.I.; El Enshasy, H.A.; Simarmata, T. Halotolerant Rhizobacteria for Salinity-Stress Mitigation: Diversity, Mechanisms and Molecular Approaches. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 490. [CrossRef]30. Akinola, S.; Ayangbenro, A.; Babalola, O. The Immense Functional Attributes of Maize Rhizosphere Microbiome: A ShotgunSequencing Approach. Agriculture 2021 ,11, 118. [CrossRef]31. Saeed, Q.; Xiukang, W.; Haider, F.U.; Kuˇ cerik, J.; Mumtaz, M.Z.; Holatko, J.; Naseem, M.; Kintl, A.; Ejaz, M.; Naveed, M.; et al.Rhizosphere Bacteria in Plant Growth Promotion, Biocontrol, and Bioremediation of Contaminated Sites: A ComprehensiveReview of Effects and Mechanisms. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 10529. [CrossRef]32. Puri, K.M.; Butardo, V .; Sumer, H. Evaluation of natural endosymbiosis for progress towards artiﬁcial endosymbiosis. Symbiosis2021 ,84, 1–17. [CrossRef]33. Thomas, L.; Singh, I. Intermicrobial Interactions in the Pedosphere and Their Importance. In Structure and Functions of Pedosphere ;Giri, B., Kapoor, R., Wu, Q.-S., Varma, A., Eds.; Springer Nature Singapore: Singapore, 2022; pp. 23–65.34. Babalola, O.O.; Fadiji, A.E.; Enagbonma, B.J.; Alori, E.T.; Ayilara, M.S.; Ayangbenro, A.S. The Nexus Between Plant and PlantMicrobiome: Revelation of the Networking Strategies. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 548037. [CrossRef]35. Meena, M.; Swapnil, P .; Divyanshu, K.; Kumar, S.; Harish; Tripathi, Y.N.; Zehra, A.; Marwal, A.; Upadhyay, R.S. PGPR-mediatedinduction of systemic resistance and physiochemical alterations in plants against the pathogens: Current perspectives. J. BasicMicrobiol. 2020 ,60, 828–861. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 22 of 2736. Hassanisaadi, M.; Barani, M.; Rahdar, A.; Heidary, M.; Thysiadou, A.; Kyzas, G.Z. Role of agrochemical-based nanomaterials inplants: Biotic and abiotic stress with germination improvement of seeds. Plant Growth Regul. 2022 ,97, 375–418. [CrossRef]37. Sinha, T.; Nandi, K.; Das, R.; Prasad, S.N.; Pradhan, M.; Maurya, S.; Nandi, A. Chapter 5—Microbe-mediated biotic and abioticstress tolerance in crop plants. In Microbes and Microbial Biotechnology for Green Remediation ; Malik, J.A., Ed.; Elsevier: Kashmir(J&K), India, 2022; pp. 93–116.38. Zhang, S.; Li, C.; Si, J.; Han, Z.; Chen, D. Action Mechanisms of Effectors in Plant-Pathogen Interaction. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23,6758. [CrossRef]39. Ty´ skiewicz, R.; Nowak, A.; Ozimek, E.; Jaroszuk- ´Sciseł, J. Trichoderma : The Current Status of Its Application in Agriculture for theBiocontrol of Fungal Phytopathogens and Stimulation of Plant Growth. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 2329. [CrossRef]40. Khan, N. Molecular Communication between Plants and Plant-Growth-Promoting Microorganisms for Stress Tolerance. Microor-ganisms 2022 ,10, 1088. [CrossRef]41. Murali, M.; Naziya, B.; Ansari, M.A.; Alomary, M.N.; Alyahya, S.; Almatroudi, A.; Thriveni, M.C.; Gowtham, H.G.; Singh, S.B.;Aiyaz, M.; et al. Bioprospecting of Rhizosphere-Resident Fungi: Their Role and Importance in Sustainable Agriculture. J. Fungi2021 ,7, 314. [CrossRef]42. Răut, I.; C ălin, M.; Capr ă, L.; Gurban, A.-M.; Doni, M.; Radu, N.; Jecu, L. Cladosporium sp. Isolate as Fungal Plant GrowthPromoting Agent. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 392. [CrossRef]43. Chandra Mohana, N.; Narendra Kumar, H.K.; Mahadevakumar, S.; Sowmya, R.; Sridhar, K.R.; Satish, S. First Report of Aspergillusversicolor Associated with Fruit Rot Disease of Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) from India. Plant Dis. 2022 ,106, 1300. [CrossRef]44. Ribeiro, J.A.; Albuquerque, A.; Materatski, P .; Patanita, M.; Varanda, C.M.R.; F élix, M.D.R.; Campos, M.D. Tomato Response toFusarium spp. Infection under Field Conditions: Study of Potential Genes Involved. Horticulturae 2022 ,8, 433. [CrossRef]45. Hassine, M.; Aydi-Ben-Abdallah, R.; Jabnoun-Khireddine, H.; Daami-Remadi, M. Soil-borne and compost-borne Penicillium sp.and Gliocladium spp. as potential microbial biocontrol agents for the suppression of anthracnose-induced decay on tomato fruits.Egypt. J. Biol. Pest Control 2022 ,32, 20. [CrossRef]46. Dukare, A.S.; Singh, R.K.; Jangra, R.K.; Bhushan, B. Non-Fungicides-Based Promising Technologies for Managing Post-ProductionPenicillium Induced Spoilage in Horticultural Commodities: A Comprehensive Review. Food Rev. Int. 2022 ,38, 227–267. [CrossRef]47. Cort és-Rojas, D.; Beltr án-Acosta, C.; Zapata-Narvaez, Y.; Chaparro, M.; G ómez, M.; Cruz-Barrera, M. Seed coating as a deliverysystem for the endophyte Trichoderma koningiopsis Th003 in rice ( Oryza sativa ).Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2021 ,105, 1889–1904.[CrossRef] [PubMed]48. Geetha, N.; Sunilkumar, C.R.; Bhavya, G.; Nandini, B.; Abhijith, P .; Satapute, P .; Shetty, H.S.; Govarthanan, M.; Jogaiah, S.Warhorses in soil bioremediation: Seed biopriming with PGPF secretome to phytostimulate crop health under heavy metal stress.Environ. Res. 2022 ,216, 114498. [CrossRef]49. Taheri, P .; Kaida, R.; Dastogeer, K.M.G.; Appiah, K.S.; Yasuda, M.; Tanaka, K.; Korrani, H.M.; Azizi, M.; Okazaki, S.; Fujii, Y.Isolation and Functional Characterization of Culture-Dependent Endophytes Associated with Vicia villosa Roth. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 2417. [CrossRef]50. Tarroum, M.; Ben Romdhane, W.; Ali, A.A.M.; Al-Qurainy, F.; Al-Doss, A.; Fki, L.; Hassairi, A. Harnessing the Rhizosphere ofthe Halophyte Grass Aeluropus littoralis for Halophilic Plant-Growth-Promoting Fungi and Evaluation of Their BiostimulantActivities. Plants 2021 ,10, 784. [CrossRef]51. Galeano, R.M.S.; Franco, D.G.; Chaves, P .O.; Giannesi, G.C.; Masui, D.C.; Ruller, R.; Corr êa, B.O.; da Silva Brasil, M.; Zanoelo, F.F.Plant growth promoting potential of endophytic Aspergillus niger 9-p isolated from native forage grass in Pantanal of Nhecol ândiaregion, Brazil. Rhizosphere 2021 ,18, 100332. [CrossRef]52. Asghar, W.; Kataoka, R. Different Green Manures ( Vicia villosa and Brassica juncea ) Construct Different Fungal Structures, IncludingPlant-Growth-Promoting Effects, after Incorporation into the Soil. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 323. [CrossRef]53. Hang, X.; Meng, L.; Ou, Y.; Shao, C.; Xiong, W.; Zhang, N.; Liu, H.; Li, R.; Shen, Q.; Kowalchuk, G.A. Trichoderma -amendedbiofertilizer stimulates soil resident Aspergillus population for joint plant growth promotion. npj Bioﬁlms Microbiomes 2022 ,8, 57.[CrossRef]54. Batabyal, B. Plant Growth Promoting Fungi: Mechanisms and Applications for Crop Productivity. Int. J. Pharm. Biol. Sci. 2021 ,12,1–9.55. Debbarma, M.; Rajesh, T.; Devi, R.K.T.; Thakuria, D.; Azad, N.S.; Thakur, O.D.; Hajong, M. Morphological characterizationof plant growth promoting fungi (PGPF) isolated from maize rhizosphere in Meghalaya. J. Pharm. Innov. 2021 ,10, 570–575.[CrossRef]56. Kazerooni, E.A.; Maharachchikumbura, S.S.N.; Al-Sadi, A.M.; Rashid, U.; Kang, S.-M.; Lee, I.-J. Actinomucor elegans and Podosporabulbillosa Positively Improves Endurance to Water Deﬁcit and Salinity Stresses in Tomato Plants. J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 785. [CrossRef]57. Zhao, X.; Liu, X.; Zhao, H.; Ni, Y.; Lian, Q.; Qian, H.; He, B.; Liu, H.; Ma, Q. Biological control of Fusarium wilt of sesame byPenicillium bilaiae 47M-1. Biol. Control 2021 ,158, 104601. [CrossRef]58. Yan, Y.; Hou, P .; Duan, F.; Niu, L.; Dai, T.; Wang, K.; Zhao, M.; Li, S.; Zhou, W. Improving photosynthesis to increase grain yieldpotential: An analysis of maize hybrids released in different years in China. Photosynth. Res. 2021 ,150, 295–311. [CrossRef]59. Sepehri, M.; Khatabi, B. Combination of Siderophore-Producing Bacteria and Piriformospora indica Provides an Efﬁcient Approachto Improve Cadmium Tolerance in Alfalfa. Microb. Ecol. 2020 ,81, 717–730. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 23 of 2760. Soumare, A.; Di édhiou, A.G.; Arora, N.K.; Tawfeeq Al-Ani, L.K.; Ngom, M.; Fall, S.; Haﬁdi, M.; Ouhdouch, Y.; Kouisni, L.;Sy, M.O. Potential Role and Utilization of Plant Growth Promoting Microbes in Plant Tissue Culture. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12,649878. [CrossRef]61. Offenberg, J.; Jensen, I.C.; Hansen, R.R. Combatting plant diseases with ant chemicals: A review and meta-analysis. J. Appl. Ecol.2021 ,59, 25–38. [CrossRef]62. Meena, M.; Yadav, G.; Sonigra, P .; Nagda, A.; Mehta, T.; Swapnil, P .; Harish; Marwal, A. Role of elicitors to initiate the inductionof systemic resistance in plants to biotic stress. Plant Stress 2022 ,5, 100103. [CrossRef]63. Mushtaq, S.; Shaﬁq, M.; Haider, M.S.; Nayik, G.A.; Salmen, S.H.; El Enshasy, H.A.; Kenawy, A.A.; Goksen, G.; V ázquez-N úñez, E.;Ansari, M.J. Morphological and physiological response of sour orange ( Citrus aurantium L.) seedlings to the inoculation oftaxonomically characterized bacterial endophytes. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 2022 ,29, 3232–3243. [CrossRef]64. Sui, Z.; Yin, J.; Huang, J.; Yuan, L. Phosphorus mobilization and improvement of crop agronomic performances by a new white-rotfungus Ceriporia lacerata HG2011. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2022 ,102, 1640–1650. [CrossRef]65. Fatima, F.; Ahmad, M.M.; Verma, S.R.; Pathak, N. Relevance of phosphate solubilizing microbes in sustainable crop production:A review. Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2021 ,19, 9283–9296. [CrossRef]66. Lin, S.; Gunupuru, L.R.; Ofoe, R.; Saleh, R.; Asiedu, S.K.; Thomas, R.H.; Abbey, L. Mineralization and nutrient release patternof vermicast-sawdust mixed media with or without addition of Trichoderma viride .PLoS ONE 2021 ,16, e0254188. [CrossRef][PubMed]67. Paul, S.; Rakshit, A. Evaluating Ligniﬁcation, Antioxidative Defense, and Physiochemical Changes in Soybean through Bio-Priming under Graded Soil Fertilization. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2022 ,22, 2295–2306. [CrossRef]68. Lyu, X.; Sun, C.; Zhang, J.; Wang, C.; Zhao, S.; Ma, C.; Li, S.; Li, H.; Gong, Z.; Yan, C. Integrated Proteomics and MetabolomicsAnalysis of Nitrogen System Regulation on Soybean Plant Nodulation and Nitrogen Fixation. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 2545.[CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Gupta, A.K.; Verma, J.; Srivastava, A.; Srivastava, S.; Prasad, V . Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolate PM1 effectively controls virusinfection and promotes growth in plants. Arch. Microbiol. 2022 ,204, 494. [CrossRef]70. Naing, A.H.; Maung, T.T.; Kim, C.K. The ACC deaminase-producing plant growth-promoting bacteria: Inﬂuences of bacterialstrains and ACC deaminase activities in plant tolerance to abiotic stress. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,173, 1992–2012. [CrossRef]71. Nandini, B.; Geetha, N.; Prakash, H.S.; Hariparsad, P . Natural uptake of anti-oomycetes Trichoderma produced secondarymetabolites from pearl millet seedlings—A new mechanism of biological control of downy mildew disease. Biol. Control 2021 ,156, 104550. [CrossRef]72. Singh, S.; Balodi, R.; Meena, P .N.; Singhal, S. Biocontrol activity of Trichoderma harzianum ,Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonasﬂuorescens against Meloidogyne incognita ,Fusarium oxysporum and Rhizoctonia solani .Indian Phytopathol. 2021 ,74, 703–714.[CrossRef]73. Sun, R.; Yi, Z.; Fu, Y.; Liu, H. Dynamic changes in rhizosphere fungi in different developmental stages of wheat in a conﬁned andisolated environment. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2022 ,106, 441–453. [CrossRef]74. Puri, K.D.; Hu, X.; Gurung, S.; Short, D.P .G.; Sandoya, G.V .; Schild, M.; Zhang, Y.; Zhao, J.; Anchieta, A.G.; Klosterman, S.J.; et al.Verticillium klebahnii and V . isaacii Isolates Exhibit Host-Dependent Biological Control of Verticillium Wilt Caused by V . dahliae .Phytofrontiers™ 2021 ,1, 276–290. [CrossRef]75. Elsharkawy, M.M.; Khedr, A.A.; Mehiar, F.; El-Kady, E.M.; Baazeem, A.; Shimizu, M. Suppression of Pseudomonas syringae pv.tomato infection by rhizosphere fungi. Pest Manag. Sci. 2021 ,77, 4350–4356. [CrossRef]76. Haﬁz, F.B.; Moradtalab, N.; Goertz, S.; Rietz, S.; Dietel, K.; Rozhon, W.; Humbeck, K.; Geistlinger, J.; Neumann, G.; Schellenberg, I.Synergistic Effects of a Root-Endophytic Trichoderma Fungus and Bacillus on Early Root Colonization and Defense ActivationAgainst Verticillium longisporum in Rapeseed. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2022 ,35, 380–392. [CrossRef]77. Lavanya, S.N.; Niranjan-Raj, S.; Jadimurthy, R.; Sudarsan, S.; Srivastava, R.; Tarasatyavati, C.; Rajashekara, H.; Gupta, V .K.;Nayaka, S.C. Immunity elicitors for induced resistance against the downy mildew pathogen in pearl millet. Sci. Rep. 2022 ,12,4078. [CrossRef]78. Llorens, E.; Scalschi, L.; Sharon, O.; Vicedo, B.; Sharon, A.; Garc ía-Agust ín, P . Jasmonic acid pathway is required in the resistanceinduced by Acremonium sclerotigenum in tomato against Pseudomonas syringae .Plant Sci. 2022 ,318, 111210. [CrossRef]79. Gupta, R.; Keppanan, R.; Leibman-Markus, M.; Rav-David, D.; Elad, Y.; Ment, D.; Bar, M. The Entomopathogenic FungiMetarhizium brunneum and Beauveria bassiana Promote Systemic Immunity and Confer Resistance to a Broad Range of Pests andPathogens in Tomato. Phytopathology® 2022 ,112, 784–793. [CrossRef]80. Jha, A.B.; Gali, K.K.; Alam, Z.; Lachagari, V .B.R.; Warkentin, T.D. Potential Application of Genomic Technologies in Breeding forFungal and Oomycete Disease Resistance in Pea. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 1260. [CrossRef]81. Guarnizo, N.; Álvarez, A.; Oliveros, D.; Barbosa, O.; Joli, J.E.; Berm údez-Cardona, M.B.; Murillo-Arango, W. Elicitor Activity ofCurdlan and Its Potential Application in Protection of Hass Avocado Plants against Phytophthora cinnamomi Rands. Horticulturae2022 ,8, 646. [CrossRef]82. Aitouguinane, M.; El Alaoui-Talibi, Z.; Rchid, H.; Fendri, I.; Abdelkaﬁ, S.; Ould El-Hadj, M.D.; Boual, Z.; Dubessay, P .; Michaud, P .;Le Cerf, D.; et al. A Novel Sulfated Glycoprotein Elicitor Extracted from the Moroccan Green Seaweed Codium decorticatumInduces Natural Defenses in Tomato. Appl. Sci. 2022 ,12, 3643. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 24 of 2783. Shukla, P .S.; Borza, T.; Critchley, A.T.; Prithiviraj, B. Seaweed-Based Compounds and Products for Sustainable Protection againstPlant Pathogens. Mar. Drugs 2021 ,19, 59. [CrossRef]84. Prasad, L.; Katoch, S.; Shahid, S. Microbial interaction mediated programmed cell death in plants. 3 Biotech 2022 ,12, 43. [CrossRef]85. Chauhan, D.K.; Yadav, V .; Vacul ík, M.; Gassmann, W.; Pike, S.; Arif, N.; Singh, V .P .; Deshmukh, R.; Sahi, S.; Tripathi, D.K.Aluminum toxicity and aluminum stress-induced physiological tolerance responses in higher plants. Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 2021 ,41, 715–730. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Kamble, M.V .; Joshi, S.M.; Hadimani, S.; Jogaiah, S. Biopriming with rhizosphere Trichoderma harzianum elicit protection againstgrapevine downy mildew disease by triggering histopathological and biochemical defense responses. Rhizosphere 2021 ,19, 100398.[CrossRef]87. An, Y.; Wang, X.; Ji, S.; Han, J.; Wang, Y.; Ma, L.; Liu, Z. A novel Trichoderma asperellum isolate promoting the growth, detoxiﬁcation,and antifungal abilities of Arabidopsis thaliana seedlings under Fusarium oxysporum toxin stress. J. Plant Pathol. 2021 ,103, 1207–1220.[CrossRef]88. Jha, Y.; Mohamed, H.I. Plant Secondary Metabolites as a Tool to Investigate Biotic Stress Tolerance in Plants: A Review. GesundePﬂanz. 2022 ,74, 771–790. [CrossRef]89. Oliveira Almeida, N.; Martins de Oliveira, C.; Jos éUlhoa, C.; Vin ícius de Carvalho Barros Cortes, M.; Lobo J únior, M.; R úbia daRocha, M. Trichoderma harzianum and Trichoderma asperellum are potential biocontrol agents of Meloidogyne javanica in banana cv.Grande Naine. Biol. Control 2022 ,175, 105054. [CrossRef]90. Toppo, P .; Subba, R.; Roy, K.; Mukherjee, S.; Mathur, P . Elucidating the Strategies for Isolation of Endophytic Fungi and TheirFunctional Attributes for the Regulation of Plant Growth and Resilience to Stress. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2022 , 1–22. [CrossRef]91. Jamil, A.; Musheer, N.; Kumar, M. Evaluation of biocontrol agents for management of wilt disease of tomato incited by Fusariumoxysporum f. sp. lycopersici .Arch. Phytopathol. Plant Prot. 2021 ,54, 1722–1737. [CrossRef]92. Slezina, M.P .; Istomina, E.A.; Korostyleva, T.V .; Kovtun, A.S.; Kasianov, A.S.; Konopkin, A.A.; Shcherbakova, L.A.; Odintsova, T.I.Molecular Insights into the Role of Cysteine-Rich Peptides in Induced Resistance to Fusarium oxysporum Infection in TomatoBased on Transcriptome Proﬁling. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 5741. [CrossRef]93. Liu, Y.; Li, Y.; Bi, Y.; Jiang, Q.; Mao, R.; Liu, Z.; Huang, Y.; Zhang, M.; Prusky, D.B. Induction of defense response against Alternariarot in Zaosu pear fruit by exogenous L-lysine through regulating ROS metabolism and activating defense-related proteins.Postharvest Biol. Technol. 2021 ,179, 111567. [CrossRef]94. Wang, Y.; Mostafa, S.; Zeng, W.; Jin, B. Function and Mechanism of Jasmonic Acid in Plant Responses to Abiotic and BioticStresses. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 8568. [CrossRef]95. Abdelkhalek, A.; Al-Askar, A.A.; Arishi, A.A.; Behiry, S.I. Trichoderma hamatum Strain Th23 Promotes Tomato Growth and InducesSystemic Resistance against Tobacco Mosaic Virus. J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 228. [CrossRef]96. Morán-Diez, M.E.; Mart ínez De Alba, Á.E.; Rubio, M.B.; Hermosa, R.; Monte, E. Trichoderma and the Plant Heritable PrimingResponses. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 318. [CrossRef]97. Zehra, A.; Raytekar, N.A.; Meena, M.; Swapnil, P . Efﬁciency of microbial bio-agents as elicitors in plant defense mechanism underbiotic stress: A review. Curr. Res. Microb. Sci. 2021 ,2, 100054. [CrossRef]98. Yu, Y.; Gui, Y.; Li, Z.; Jiang, C.; Guo, J.; Niu, D. Induced Systemic Resistance for Improving Plant Immunity by Beneﬁcial Microbes.Plants 2022 ,11, 386. [CrossRef]99. Sarangi, S.; Swain, H.; Adak, T.; Bhattacharyya, P .; Mukherjee, A.K.; Kumar, G.; Mehetre, S.T. Trichoderma -mediated rice strawcompost promotes plant growth and imparts stress tolerance. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2021 ,28, 44014–44027. [CrossRef]100. Derbyshire, M.C.; Batley, J.; Edwards, D. Use of multiple ‘omics techniques to accelerate the breeding of abiotic stress tolerantcrops. Curr. Plant Biol. 2022 ,32, 100262. [CrossRef]101. Enebe, M.C.; Babalola, O.O. The inﬂuence of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria in plant tolerance to abiotic stress: A survivalstrategy. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,102, 7821–7835. [CrossRef]102. Waaswa, A.; Oywaya Nkurumwa, A.; Mwangi Kibe, A.; Ngeno Kipkemoi, J. Climate-Smart agriculture and potato production inKenya: Review of the determinants of practice. Clim. Dev. 2021 ,14, 75–90. [CrossRef]103. Akhtar, N.; Wani, A.K.; Dhanjal, D.S.; Mukherjee, S. Insights into the beneﬁcial roles of dark septate endophytes in plants underchallenging environment: Resilience to biotic and abiotic stresses. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2022 ,38, 79. [CrossRef]104. Ram, K.; Devi, S.; Singh, A.; Kaur, V .; Kumar, J.; Arya, S.S. Microorganisms: The Viable Approach for Mitigation of Abiotic Stress.InPlant Stress Mitigators; Action and Application ; Vaishnav, A., Arya, S.S., Choudhary, D.K., Eds.; Springer Nature: Singapore, 2022;pp. 323–339. [CrossRef]105. Dos Santos, L.B.P .R.; Oliveira-Santos, N.; Fernandes, J.V .; Jaimes-Martinez, J.C.; De Souza, J.T.; Cruz-Magalh ães, V .; Loguercio, L.L.Tolerance to and Alleviation of Abiotic Stresses in Plants Mediated by Trichoderma spp. In Advances in Trichoderma Biology forAgricultural Applications ; Amaresan, N., Sankaranarayanan, A., Dwivedi, M.K., Druzhinina, I.S., Eds.; Springer InternationalPublishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2022; pp. 321–359.106. Begum, N.; Wang, L.; Ahmad, H.; Akhtar, K.; Roy, R.; Khan, M.I.; Zhao, T. Co-inoculation of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungiand the Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria Improve Growth and Photosynthesis in Tobacco Under Drought Stress byUp-Regulating Antioxidant and Mineral Nutrition Metabolism. Microb. Ecol. 2022 ,83, 971–988. [CrossRef]107. Taheri, P . Crosstalk of nitro-oxidative stress and iron in plant immunity. Free Radic. Biol. Med. 2022 ,191, 137–149. [CrossRef][PubMed]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 25 of 27108. Abo Nouh, F.; Abu-Elsaoud, A.; Abdel-Azeem, A. The role of endophytic fungi in combating abiotic stress on tomato. Microb.Biosyst. 2021 ,6, 35–48. [CrossRef]109. Kazerooni, E.A.; Maharachchikumbura, S.S.N.; Al-Sadi, A.M.; Rashid, U.; Kim, I.-D.; Kang, S.-M.; Lee, I.-J. Effects of theRhizosphere Fungus Cunninghamella bertholletiae on the Solanum lycopersicum Response to Diverse Abiotic Stresses. Int. J. Mol. Sci.2022 ,23, 8909. [CrossRef] [PubMed]110. Munir, N.; Hanif, M.; Abideen, Z.; Sohail, M.; El-Keblawy, A.; Radicetti, E.; Mancinelli, R.; Haider, G. Mechanisms and Strategiesof Plant Microbiome Interactions to Mitigate Abiotic Stresses. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 2069. [CrossRef]111. Chouhan, S.; Agrawal, L.; Prakash, A. Amelioration in traditional farming system by exploring the different plant growth-promoting attributes of endophytes for sustainable agriculture. Arch. Microbiol. 2022 ,204, 151. [CrossRef]112. Eshaghi Gorgi, O.; Fallah, H.; Niknejad, Y.; Barari Tari, D. Effect of Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and mycorrhizalfungi inoculations on essential oil in Melissa ofﬁcinalis L. under drought stress. Biologia 2022 ,77, 11–20. [CrossRef]113. Fazeli-Nasab, B.; Shahraki-Mojahed, L.; Piri, R.; Sobhanizadeh, A. 20— Trichoderma : Improving growth and tolerance to biotic andabiotic stresses in plants. In Trends of Applied Microbiology for Sustainable Economy ; Soni, R., Suyal, D.C., Yadav, A.N., Goel, R., Eds.;Academic Press: Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, 2022; pp. 525–564.114. Bisht, S.; Singh, S.; Singh, M.; Sharma, J.G. Augmentative role of Piriformospora indica fungus and plant growth promoting bacteriain mitigating salinity stress in Trigonella foenum-graecum .J. Appl. Biol. Biotechnol. 2022 ,10, 85–94. [CrossRef]115. Yadav, R.; Chakraborty, S.; Ramakrishna, W. Wheat grain proteomic and protein–metabolite interactions analyses provide insightsinto plant growth promoting bacteria–arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi–wheat interactions. Plant Cell Rep. 2022 ,41, 1417–1437.[CrossRef]116. Laranjeira, S.; Reis, S.; Torcato, C.; Raimundo, F.; Ferreira, L.; Carnide, V .; Fernandes-Silva, A.; Marques, G. Use of Plant-GrowthPromoting Rhizobacteria and Mycorrhizal Fungi Consortium as a Strategy to Improve Chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) Productivityunder Different Irrigation Regimes. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 1383. [CrossRef]117. Israel, A.; Langrand, J.; Fontaine, J.; Loun ès-Hadj Sahraoui, A. Signiﬁcance of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Mitigating AbioticEnvironmental Stress in Medicinal and Aromatic Plants: A Review. Foods 2022 ,11, 2591. [CrossRef]118. Benito, P .; Ligorio, D.; Bell ón, J.; Yenush, L.; Mulet, J.M. A fast method to evaluate in a combinatorial manner the synergistic effectof different biostimulants for promoting growth or tolerance against abiotic stress. Plant Methods 2022 ,18, 111. [CrossRef]119. Tyagi, J.; Chaudhary, P .; Mishra, A.; Khatwani, M.; Dey, S.; Varma, A. Role of Endophytes in Abiotic Stress Tolerance: With SpecialEmphasis on Serendipita indica .Int. J. Environ. Res. 2022 ,16, 62. [CrossRef]120. Zhou, L.; Zhao, X.; Meng, Y.; Fei, Y.; Teng, M.; Song, F.; Wu, F. Identiﬁcation priority source of soil heavy metals pollution basedon source-speciﬁc ecological and human health risk analysis in a typical smelting and mining region of South China. Ecotoxicol.Environ. Saf. 2022 ,242, 113864. [CrossRef]121. Amara, A.A.A.F. Natural Polymer Types and Applications. In Biomolecules from Natural Sources: Advances and Applications ; JohnWiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2022; pp. 31–81. [CrossRef]122. Babalola, O.O.; Emmanuel, O.C.; Adeleke, B.S.; Odelade, K.A.; Nwachukwu, B.C.; Ayiti, O.E.; Adegboyega, T.T.; Igiehon, N.O.Rhizosphere Microbiome Cooperations: Strategies for Sustainable Crop Production. Curr. Microbiol. 2021 ,78, 1069–1085.[CrossRef]123. Wen, T.; Zhong, H.; Fu, G.; Zhong, Y. Effects of environmental factors on release amount of heavy metal and structure of microbialcommunity in sediments. Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2022 ,19, 4007–4018. [CrossRef]124. Rojas-S ánchez, B.; Guzm án-Guzm án, P .; Morales-Cedeño, L.R.; Orozco-Mosqueda, M.D.C.; Saucedo-Mart ínez, B.C.; S ánchez-Yáñez, J.M.; Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O.; Glick, B.R.; Santoyo, G. Bioencapsulation of Microbial Inoculants: Mechanisms,Formulation Types and Application Techniques. Appl. Biosci. 2022 ,1, 198–220. [CrossRef]125. Nwachukwu, B.C.; Ayangbenro, A.S.; Babalola, O.O. Elucidating the Rhizosphere Associated Bacteria for EnvironmentalSustainability. Agriculture 2021 ,11, 75. [CrossRef]126. Dowarah, B.; Gill, S.S.; Agarwala, N. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Conferring Tolerance to Biotic Stresses in Plants. J. PlantGrowth Regul. 2022 ,41, 1429–1444. [CrossRef]127. Igiehon, N.O.; Babalola, O.O. Biofertilizers and sustainable agriculture: Exploring arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Appl. Microbiol.Biotechnol. 2017 ,101, 4871–4881. [CrossRef]128. Redman, R.S.; Kim, Y.O.; Cho, S.; Mercer, M.; Rienstra, M.; Manglona, R.; Biaggi, T.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chilvers, M.; Gray, Z.; et al. ASymbiotic Approach to Generating Stress Tolerant Crops. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 920. [CrossRef]129. Sofy, M.R.; Aboseidah, A.A.; Heneidak, S.A.; Ahmed, H.R. ACC deaminase containing endophytic bacteria ameliorate salt stressin Pisum sativum through reduced oxidative damage and induction of antioxidative defense systems. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.2021 ,28, 40971–40991. [CrossRef] [PubMed]130. Adeleke, B.S.; Fadiji, A.E.; Ayilara, M.S.; Igiehon, O.N.; Nwachukwu, B.C.; Babalola, O.O. Strategies to Enhance the Use ofEndophytes as Bioinoculants in Agriculture. Horticulturae 2022 ,8, 498. [CrossRef]131. Klein, M.; Stewart, J.D.; Porter, S.S.; Weedon, J.T.; Kiers, E.T. Evolution of manipulative microbial behaviors in the rhizosphere.Evol. Appl. 2022 ,15, 1521–1536. [CrossRef] [PubMed]132. Huang, Y.-H.; Liu, Y.; Geng, J.; Lü, H.; Zhao, H.-M.; Xiang, L.; Li, H.; Mo, C.-H.; Li, Y.-W.; Cai, Q.-Y. Maize root-associated nichesdetermine the response variation in bacterial community assembly and function to phthalate pollution. J. Hazard. Mater. 2022 ,429, 128280. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 26 of 27133. Gupta, H.; Ganotra, J.; Pathania, N.; Patel, T.B.; Choudhary, N.; Rani, R.; Supolia, D.; Kumar, D. Unearthing the ModernTrends and Concepts of Rhizosphere Microbiome in Relation to Plant Productivity. In Plant Microbiome for Plant Productivityand Sustainable Agriculture ; Part of the Microorganisms for Sustainability Book Series; Chhabra, S., Prasad, R., Maddela, N.R.,Tuteja, N., Eds.; Springer Nature: Singapore, 2023; pp. 19–54. [CrossRef]134. Orozco-Mosqueda, M.D.C.; Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O.; Glick, B.R.; Santoyo, G. Rhizobiome engineering: Unveiling complexrhizosphere interactions to enhance plant growth and health. Microbiol. Res. 2022 ,263, 127137. [CrossRef]135. Tsotetsi, T.; Nephali, L.; Malebe, M.; Tugizimana, F. Bacillus for Plant Growth Promotion and Stress Resilience: What Have WeLearned? Plants 2022 ,11, 2482. [CrossRef]136. Wahab, A.; Abdi, G.; Saleem, M.H.; Ali, B.; Ullah, S.; Shah, W.; Mumtaz, S.; Yasin, G.; Muresan, C.C.; Marc, R.A. Plants’ Physio-Biochemical and Phyto-Hormonal Responses to Alleviate the Adverse Effects of Drought Stress: A Comprehensive Review. Plants2022 ,11, 1620. [CrossRef]137. Contreras-Cornejo, H.A.; Mac ías-Rodr íguez, L.; Cort és-Penagos, C.; L ópez-Bucio, J. Trichoderma virens , a Plant Beneﬁcial Fungus,Enhances Biomass Production and Promotes Lateral Root Growth through an Auxin-Dependent Mechanism in Arabidopsis .PlantPhysiol. 2009 ,149, 1579–1592. [CrossRef]138. Tripathi, D.; Singh, M.; Pandey-Rai, S. Crosstalk of nanoparticles and phytohormones regulate plant growth and metabolismunder abiotic and biotic stress. Plant Stress 2022 ,6, 100107. [CrossRef]139. Barazani, O.; Benderoth, M.; Groten, K.; Kuhlemeier, C.; Baldwin, I.T. Piriformospora indica and Sebacina vermifera increase growthperformance at the expense of herbivore resistance in Nicotiana attenuata .Oecologia 2005 ,146, 234–243. [CrossRef]140. Schäfer, P .; Pﬁfﬁ, S.; Voll, L.M.; Zajic, D.; Chandler, P .M.; Waller, F.; Scholz, U.; Pons-Kühnemann, J.; Sonnewald, S.; Sonnewald, U.;et al. Manipulation of plant innate immunity and gibberellin as factor of compatibility in the mutualistic association of barleyroots with Piriformospora indica .Plant J. 2009 ,59, 461–474. [CrossRef]141. Camehl, I.; Sherameti, I.; Venus, Y.; Bethke, G.; Varma, A.; Lee, J.; Oelmüller, R. Ethylene signalling and ethylene-targetedtranscription factors are required to balance beneﬁcial and nonbeneﬁcial traits in the symbiosis between the endophytic fungusPiriformospora indica and Arabidopsis thaliana .New Phytol. 2010 ,185, 1062–1073. [CrossRef]142. Babbal; Adivitiya; Khasa, Y.P . Microbes as Biocontrol Agents. In Probiotics and Plant Health ; Kumar, V ., Kumar, M., Sharma, S.,Prasad, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2017; pp. 507–552.143. Estrada-Rivera, M.; Rebolledo-Prudencio, O.G.; P érez-Robles, D.A.; Rocha-Medina, M.D.C.; Gonz ález-López, M.D.C.; Casas-Flores, S. Trichoderma Histone Deacetylase HDA-2 Modulates Multiple Responses in Arabidopsis .Plant Physiol. 2019 ,179, 1343–1361.[CrossRef]144. Hashem, A.; Tabassum, B.; Fathi Abd Allah, E. Bacillus subtilis : A plant-growth promoting rhizobacterium that also impacts bioticstress. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 2019 ,26, 1291–1297. [CrossRef]145. Bean, K.M.; Kisiala, A.B.; Morrison, E.N.; Emery, R.J.N. Trichoderma Synthesizes Cytokinins and Alters Cytokinin Dynamics ofInoculated Arabidopsis Seedlings. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2022 ,41, 2678–2694. [CrossRef]146. Saleem, M.; Fariduddin, Q.; Janda, T. Multifaceted Role of Salicylic Acid in Combating Cold Stress in Plants: A Review. J. PlantGrowth Regul. 2020 ,40, 464–485. [CrossRef]147. Jaiswal, A.K.; Alkan, N.; Elad, Y.; Sela, N.; Philosoph, A.M.; Graber, E.R.; Frenkel, O. Molecular insights into biochar-mediatedplant growth promotion and systemic resistance in tomato against Fusarium crown and root rot disease. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 13934.[CrossRef]148. Sarkar, M.; Tiru, Z.; Pal, A.; Mandal, P . Screening of Plant Growth Promoting Fungi (PGPF) for Sustainable Cultivation ofTulaipanji, an Endemic Aromatic Rice Variety of Uttar Dinajpur, West Bengal, India. Agric. Sci. Dig. 2022 ,42, 741–746. [CrossRef]149. Mukherjee, B.; Roy, S.; Parvin, N.; Tarafdar, S.; Dutta, S. Characterization of a potent plant growth promoting fungal strainAspergillus fumigatus MCC 1721 with special reference to indole-3-acetic acid production. Plant Sci. Today 2023 ,10, 210–223.[CrossRef]150. Mohamed, A.H.; Abd El-Megeed, F.H.; Hassanein, N.M.; Youseif, S.H.; Farag, P .F.; Saleh, S.A.; Abdel-Wahab, B.A.; Al-suhaibani, A.M.; Helmy, Y.A.; Abdel-Azeem, A.M. Native Rhizospheric and Endophytic Fungi as Sustainable Sources ofPlant Growth Promoting Traits to Improve Wheat Growth under Low Nitrogen Input. J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 94. [CrossRef]151. Yapa, P .; Lakmali, J.; De Zoysa, H.; Silva, S.; Manawadu, C.; Herath, B.; Madhushan, K.; Perera, E.; Ratnayakae, O.; Ka-pilan, R.Biofertilizers: An Emerging Trend in Agricultural Sustainability. Chiang Mai J. Sci. 2022 ,49, 1–33. [CrossRef]152. Abdel-Motaal, F.F.; Kamel, N.M.; El-Zayat, S.A.; Mohamed, A.E.-H.H.; Darwish, D.B. Plant Seedling Growth Stimulation andAntifungal Activities of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Aspergillus ﬂavus Endophyte. Appl. Biotechnol. Rep. 2022 ,9,831–840. [CrossRef]153. Bogati, K.; Walczak, M. The Impact of Drought Stress on Soil Microbial Community, Enzyme Activities and Plants. Agronomy2022 ,12, 189. [CrossRef]154. Tarroum, M.; Romdhane, W.B.; Al-Qurainy, F.; Ali, A.A.M.; Al-Doss, A.; Fki, L.; Hassairi, A. A novel PGPF Penicillium olsoniiisolated from the rhizosphere of Aeluropus littoralis promotes plant growth, enhances salt stress tolerance, and reduces chemicalfertilizers inputs in hydroponic system. Front. Microbiol. 2022 ,13, 996054. [CrossRef]155. Russo, A.; Pollastri, S.; Ruocco, M.; Monti, M.M.; Loreto, F. Volatile organic compounds in the interaction between plants andbeneﬁcial microorganisms. J. Plant Interact. 2022 ,17, 840–852. [CrossRef]J. Fungi 2023 ,9, 239 27 of 27156. Joo, J.H.; Hussein, K.A. Biological Control and Plant Growth Promotion Properties of Volatile Organic Compound-ProducingAntagonistic Trichoderma spp. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 897668. [CrossRef]157. De Palma, M.; Scotti, R.; D’Agostino, N.; Zaccardelli, M.; Tucci, M. Phyto-Friendly Soil Bacteria and Fungi Provide BeneﬁcialOutcomes in the Host Plant by Differently Modulating Its Responses through (In)Direct Mechanisms. Plants 2022 ,11, 2672.[CrossRef]158. Moussa, Z.; Alanazi, Y.F.; Khateb, A.M.; Eldadamony, N.M.; Ismail, M.M.; Saber, W.I.A.; Darwish, D.B.E. Domiciliation ofTrichoderma asperellum Suppresses Globiosporangium ultimum and Promotes Pea Growth, Ultrastructure, and Metabolic Features.Microorganisms 2023 ,11, 198. [CrossRef]159. Singh, P .C.; Nautiyal, C.S. A novel method to prepare concentrated conidial biomass formulation of Trichoderma harzianum forseed application. J. Appl. Microbiol. 2012 ,113, 1442–1450. [CrossRef]160. Jamil, A.; Ashraf, S. Integrated approach for managing Fusarium wilt of chickpea using Azadirachta indica leaf extract, Trichodermaharzianum and Bavistin. Trop. Plant Pathol. 2022 ,47, 727–736. [CrossRef]161. Dwivedi, S.; Tanveer, A.; Yadav, S.; Anand, G.; Yadav, D. Agro-Wastes for Cost Effective Production of Industrially ImportantMicrobial Enzymes: An Overview. In Microbial Biotechnology: Role in Ecological Sustainability and Research ; John Wiley & Sons:Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2022; pp. 435–460. [CrossRef]162. Kumar, V .; Sharma, N.; Umesh, M.; Selvaraj, M.; Al-Shehri, B.M.; Chakraborty, P .; Duhan, L.; Sharma, S.; Pasrija, R.; Awasthi, M.K.;et al. Emerging challenges for the agro-industrial food waste utilization: A review on food waste bioreﬁnery. Bioresour. Technol.2022 ,362, 127790. [CrossRef]163. Oancea, F.; Raut, I.; ¸ Sesan, T.E.; Cornea, P .C. Dry Flowable Formulation of Biostimulants Trichoderma Strains. Agric. Agric. Sci.Procedia 2016 ,10, 494–502. [CrossRef]164. Zhang, F.; Meng, X.; Feng, C.; Ran, W.; Yu, G.; Zhang, Y.; Shen, Q. Hydrolytic Amino Acids Employed as a Novel OrganicNitrogen Source for the Preparation of PGPF-Containing Bio-Organic Fertilizer for Plant Growth Promotion and Characterizationof Substance Transformation during BOF Production. PLoS ONE 2016 ,11, e0149447. [CrossRef]165. Zhang, F.; Huo, Y.; Cobb, A.B.; Luo, G.; Zhou, J.; Yang, G.; Wilson, G.W.T.; Zhang, Y. Trichoderma Biofertilizer Links to Altered SoilChemistry, Altered Microbial Communities, and Improved Grassland Biomass. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 848. [CrossRef]166. Sarma, M.; Kumar, V .; Saharan, K.; Srivastava, R.; Sharma, A.K.; Prakash, A.; Sahai, V .; Bisaria, V .S. Application of inorganiccarrier-based formulations of ﬂuorescent pseudomonads and Piriformospora indica on tomato plants and evaluation of theirefﬁcacy. J. Appl. Microbiol. 2011 ,111, 456–466. [CrossRef]167. Hossain, M.M.; Sultana, F.; Hyakumachi, M. Role of ethylene signalling in growth and systemic resistance induction by the plantgrowth-promoting fungus Penicillium viridicatum inArabidopsis .J. Phytopathol. 2017 ,165, 432–441. [CrossRef]168. Sindhu, G.M.; Murali, M.; Thriveni, M.C.; Anupama, N.; Amruthesh, K.N. Growth Promotion and Disease Resistance inMuskmelon Induced by Crude Proteins of Penicillium verruculosum Against Gummy Stem Blight Disease. Asian J. Crop Sci. 2018 ,10, 160–167. [CrossRef]169. Muslim, A.; Hyakumachi, M.; Kageyama, K.; Suwandi, S. Induction of Systemic Resistance in Cucumber by HypovirulentBinucleate Rhizoctonia Against Anthracnose Caused by Colletotrichum orbiculare. Trop. Life Sci. Res. 2019 ,30, 109–122. [CrossRef]170. Dubey, N.; Singh, K.; Pankaj, U.; Pandey, V .C. Role of Plant-Microbial Secondary Metabolites in Stress Mitigation: CurrentKnowledge and Future Directions. In Microbial Based Land Restoration Handbook ; Pankaj, U., Pandey, V ., Eds.; CRC Press: BocaRaton, FL, USA, 2023; Volume 1, pp. 23–42.171. Zhou, L.S.; Tang, K.; Guo, S.X. The Plant Growth-Promoting Fungus (PGPF) Alternaria sp. A13 Markedly Enhances Salviamiltiorrhiza Root Growth and Active Ingredient Accumulation under Greenhouse and Field Conditions. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19,270. [CrossRef]172. Jara, M.D.L.; Alvarez, L.A.C.; Guimar ães, M.C.C.; Antunes, P .W.P .; de Oliveira, J.P . Lateral ﬂow assay applied to pesticidesdetection: Recent trends and progress. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2022 ,29, 46487–46508. [CrossRef]173. Zhen, Y.; Ge, L.; Chen, Q.; Xu, J.; Duan, Z.; Loor, J.J.; Wang, M. Latent Beneﬁts and Toxicity Risks Transmission Chain of HighDietary Copper along the Livestock–Environment–Plant–Human Health Axis and Microbial Homeostasis: A Review. J. Agric.Food Chem. 2022 ,70, 6943–6962. [CrossRef]174. Fernandez-San Millan, A.; Larraya, L.; Farran, I.; Ancin, M.; Veramendi, J. Successful biocontrol of major postharvest andsoil-borne plant pathogenic fungi by antagonistic yeasts. Biol. Control 2021 ,160, 104683. [CrossRef]175. Yeon, J.; Park, A.R.; Kang, M.; Nguyen, V .T.; Lee, Y.; Kim, H.M.; Park, H.W.; Ha, P .; Koo, Y.; Kim, J.-C. Control of root-knotnematodes on tomato by eliciting resistance through Aspergillus niger -derived oxalic acid. J. Pest Sci. 2022 , 1–13. [CrossRef]176. Manzar, N.; Kashyap, A.S.; Goutam, R.S.; Rajawat, M.V .S.; Sharma, P .K.; Sharma, S.K.; Singh, H.V . Trichoderma : Advent of VersatileBiocontrol Agent, Its Secrets and Insights into Mechanism of Biocontrol Potential. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 12786. [CrossRef]177. Kavusi, E.; Shahi Khalaf Ansar, B.; Dehghanian, Z.; Asgari Lajayer, B.; Nobaharan, K.; Ma, Y.; Glick, B.R. Delivery of BeneﬁcialMicrobes via Seed Coating for Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Production: A Critical Review. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2022 , 1–23.[CrossRef]Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individualauthor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury topeople or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.