Vol.:(0123456789)1 3Silicon https://doi.org/10.1007/s12633-023-02302-zREVIEW PAPERImpact of Silicon on Plant Nutrition and Significance of Silicon Mobilizing Bacteria in Agronomic PracticesTaqi Raza1  · Mazahir Abbas2 · Amna3 · Shakeel Imran4 · Muhammad Yahya Khan4 · Ansa Rebi5 · Zeinab Rafie‑Rad6 · Neal S. Eash1Received: 18 June 2022 / Accepted: 13 January 2023 © The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V. 2023AbstractGlobally, rejuvenation of soil health is a major concern due to the continuous loss of soil fertility and productivity. Soil degradation decreases crop yields and threatens global food security. Improper use of chemical fertilizers coupled with intensive cultivation further reduces both soil health and crop yields. Plants require several nutrients in varying ratios that are essential for the plant to complete a healthy growth and development cycle. Soil, water, and air are the sources of these essential macro- and micro-nutrients needed to complete plant vegetative and reproductive cycles. Among the essential macro-nutrients, nitrogen (N) plays a significant in non-legume species and without sufficient plant access to N lower yields result. While silicon (Si) is the 2nd most abundant element in the Earth’s crust and is the backbone of soil silicate minerals, it is an essential micro-nutrient for some plants. Silicon is just beginning to be recognized as an important micronutrient to some plant species and, while it is quite abundant, Si is often not readily available for plant uptake. The manufacturing cost of synthetic silica-based fertilizers is high, while absorption of silica is quite slow in soil for many plants. Rhizosphere biological weathering processes includes microbial solubilization processes that increase the dissolution of minerals and increases Si availability for plant uptake. Therefore, an important strategy to improve plant silicon uptake could be field appli-cation of Si-solubilizing bacteria. In this review, we evaluate the role of Si in seed germination, growth, and morphological development and crop yield under various biotic and abiotic stresses, different pools and fluxes of silicon (Si) in soil, and the bacterial genera of the silicon solubilizing microorganisms. We also elaborate on the detailed mechanisms of Si-solubilizing/mobilizing bacteria involved in silicate dissolution and uptake by a plant in soil. Last, we discuss the potential of silicon and silicon solubilizing/mobilizing to achieve environmentally friendly and sustainable crop production.Keywords Silicon (Si) · Silicon mobilizing bacteria · Biotic and abiotic stress · Crop production1 IntroductionAmong the plant macro- and micro- nutrients, silicon (Si) is the  2nd most abundant element in the earth’s crust. In most soils, the Si concentration varies from 25 to 35% [1 ]. It is a basic rock-forming mineral and an important component of most soils. Silicic acid  (H4SiO4) is most common avail-able form of silicon in the soil. It becomes available through the pedogenic dissolution of the primary and secondary minerals. Si is also available via adsorption or desorption of hydrous oxides of Fe and Al with silicate on the cation exchange sites [2 ].Even though silicon is important in plant biochemical and physiological processes but also play important role in plant survival and performance under plant stress. However, It is not a beneficial micronutrient to all plants [3 ]. In 2013–14,  * Taqi Raza  traza@vols.utk.edu; taqiraza85@gmail.com1 Department of Biosystems Engineering & Soil Science, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, USA2 University of Wah, Wah, Pakistan3 Department of Plant Sciences, Quaid-I-Azam University Islamabad, Islamabad, Pakistan4 UAF Sub Campus Burewala, University of Agriculture Faisalabad, Faisalabad, Pakistan5 Jianshui Research Station, School of Soil and Water Conservation, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, China6 Department of Soil Science, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Zanjan, Zanjan, Iran Silicon1 3the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials (AAPFCO) classified and acknowledged Si as a beneficial plant micro-nutrient [4 , 5] which increased the understand-ing of the application and use of Si for plant protection and production [6 –8].However, detailed information is still missing about its numerous beneficial roles in plant life under normal and stress conditions [9 , 10]. For example, Si addition can enhance seed germination, seedling vigor and growth, and later impacts on nitrogen-fixation, photosynthesis, root-shoot morphogenesis [9 , 11, 12], nutrients absorption and yield potential [13– 15]. Soluble or readily available Si in soil improve the growth and crop yield. In addition, Si also helps to build resistance in various plant species against biotic and abiotic stresses [16]. Si fertilization has many positive effects on rice and wheat crops which are important staple food crops across the world [11, 17–19]. Some reports show that the application of Si alleviates heavy metal stress, extreme temperatures and water stress [ 20]. Si may also lower the effects of diseases such as brown spot, sheath brown [ 21], powdery mildew [22] and rice blast [23] while also assisting in the uptake of many important nutrients (Mg, K, P, Zn, Cu and Fe) in rice plants [24]. Multi-beneficial characteristics of Si against different stresses and various other positive effects suggests it as a beneficial element for sustainable crop pro-duction [25– 28]. Soils developed from the weathering of rocks contain a significant amount of silicates, aluminosili-cates and silica [29, 30] that may be unavailable to crops due to the lack of silica solubilizing microorganisms [31]. While silica is needed by some plants, rock weathering by silica solubilizing bacteria also speed up soil pedogenic processes and the release of various nutrients [32].Though the presence of a large amount of insoluble poly -meric silica has been observed in soils, these compounds are not readily available to plants except for a negligible amount of soluble Si [33]. During weathering, silicate solu-bilizing bacteria release acids that convert the polymeric silicate into bioavailable forms which plants preferred to absorb [34]. The formation of monosilicic acid occurs due to the weathering of silicate containing minerals, desorp-tion from the irrigation water and soil solution [35]. Plants, soil and microorganisms also generate pools of Si by sili-cate mineral weathering via modifying soil physicochemi-cal properties, altering the soil pH and developing chelates and ligands [36]. It is stated that the maximum solubility of Si(OH)4 is 2 mM in solution while in soil its amount varies between 0.1 and 0.6 mM [20]. Recently, studies reviewed the role of microbial communities in biologically induced/biologically controlled mineralization, chalcedony crystals, carbonate speleothems and silicate speleothems in the caves [37]. During the silica cycle, bacteria regulate the biogeo-chemical cycles that transform polymerized silica into mon-omeric forms [38, 39]. As soil pH increases, monomeric acids breakdown in the presence of bases and hydrogen ion is removed. This reaction continues in the presence of a base and less stabilized polymorphs formed by the removal of hydrogen ion [40].Bacteria perform significant role in the silicon cycle that releases important crop nutrients including K, Ca, and Mg [41–43]. Unlike other synthetic fertilizers, limited quantities and brands of Silicon based fertilizers are available in the market and are often unaffordable to many farmers due to their high prices [44]. Therefore, at the global level, the use of Si fertilizer is quite rare [4 , 45, 46]. This study assesses the mechanistic approach behind the Si solubilizing bacterial to solubilize and release Si from insoluble sources such as primary and secondary minerals etc.Silicate solubilizing bacteria have been characterized as bio-fertilizers that increase silicate solubilization but research studies are limited [39, 47]. Various bacterial spe-cies have been isolated and cultured that enhance the sili-cates dissolution in soil [19] through pedogenic processes that are considered the primary source of active Si in soil and plant systems [11]. Another novel strategy to acceler -ate the bio-availability of Si in the soil is to increase the growth of naturally occurring bacteria involved in soil sili-cate weathering in conjunction with low-cost and abundant soil silicates.The objective of this study is to highlight the importance of Si, role of Si under biotic and abiotic stresses, application of silicon for agriculture production, role of silicon solubi-lizing bacteria to solubilize silicon from silicon minerals (Primary, secondary minerals and silicate), highlight the important silicone solubilizing genera of microorganisms. Furthermore, this review also briefly highlights the role of Si in the availability of P, K, Fe, Mg and Zn in soil. A detail how silicon solubilizing bacteria work shown in Fig.  1.2  Silicon Pools and Fluxes in SoilsThe earth’s crust contains about 28.8% of silicon. Si is involved in many biogeochemical cycles through weather -ing processes and subsequent Si flux into oceans. In soils, various processes cause the formation of Si pools includ-ing primary minerals, secondary minerals derived from primary ones, and secondary microcrystalline as soil strata in soil formation [48]. Cristobalite is also a major source of silicon and is derived from weathering of volcanic rocks. Many environmental factors like temperature, pH, acidity, organic anions and cations assist in the formation of secondary Si-minerals. Acidification acts as a second-ary source triggered by the degradation of clay minerals [49]. Years of field research is required to interpret the results of tests and other analysis of soil. When acetic acid soil extraction method was used, soils showed Si from Silicon 1 34–35 mg /L with the average range of 14 mg/L [50]. In terrestrial lands and soil ecosystems, Si fluxes are mostly mediated by water. Silicic acid is the major component of soil solution in the form of monomeric silicic acid [51, 52]. This monomeric form is converted into polymeric silicic acid under different prevailing conditions [53, 54]. This polymeric form contains two or more Si atoms arranged in different patterns inside the formulated struc-ture [55, 56]. In soil, Si pools are present in the form of solid, liquid and adsorbed phase shown in Fig.  2. While major sources of silicon in soil which are available for plant to uptake given in the Table  1. Biogenic Si sources can be divided into three main categories as protozoic, microbial and phytogenic [57].Microbes perform the degradation of plant leaf litter and then release the Si from the respective source. Microbial cell membranes of microbes are also responsible for the bio mineralization of Si. The precipitated Si is taken up through plant roots and assimilated into the plant biomass. In the terrestrial system, this phytogenic Si pool is also a source of Si [58].During soil pedogenesis, Si can leach or accumulate in the soil. Most of the time, Si loss was reported as a result of desilication that mainly depends on the level of strati-fication, weathering contents of the Si-containing parent material, and profile saturation [59– 61]. By increasing  CO2 partial pressure of soil solution followed by the exudation of organic components, plants increase the weathering of silicates which abruptly increases the Si influx in the bio-geosystem. This explains the obvious mechanism of Si influx by the plant in soil and this also occurs through the litter decomposition in the soil [62].Fig. 1  Graphical abstract; how silicon mobilizing/solubilizing bacteria work and improve crop productionFig. 2  Schematic overview of different silicon pools in the soil and role of biota in silicic acid formationTable 1  Major sources of availability silicon in soil for plant uptakeSource of silicon ReferencePrimary Silicates Feldsars, mica, olivine, pyroxene [63]Secondary silicates Clay minerals [63]Silicate materials Quartz, disordered silica [63]Biogenic forms Microorganism remains, Si-rich plant and Phytoliths[63, 64] Silicon1 33  Silica Solubilizing BacteriaMinerals are altered by microorganisms as they compete with other organisms to increase their ability to survive in a given environment [65, 66]. Mineral decomposition pro-vides mineral nutrients, a terminal electron acceptor in cel-lular respiration [67], and enhances the competition among the microbial species [65]. Some minerals are absorbed to increase the uptake of specific compounds which are involved in oxidation or reduction that lead to the breakdown of inorganic species during the energy utilization process [68, 69]. Many species of bacteria are involved in the release and control of Si through various steps like the arrangement, integration or disintegration of minerals [70, 71]. Various bacterial strains are recognized for their ability to increase the release of Si from silicate and improve plant growth and development. The most obvious strains are belonging to Bacillus, Pseudomonas , Proteus, Rhizobia, Burkholderia,  and Enterobacter  (Table  2). However, Systematic analysis of Si solubilizing bacterial strains by using 16S rDNA based sequencing technique highlighted  Pseudomonas and Bacil-lus as two dominant Si solubilizing microbial genera. This investigation also revealed the role of  Sphingobacterium sp. [72]. The mechanism of silicon mobilizing bacteria and how works is shown in Fig.  5.3.1  BacillusBacillus species are rod-shaped, facultative anaerobes. Bacillus are mainly Gram-positive organisms but many species may transform into Gram-negative bacteria over time. Various species belonging to this genus have a broad spectrum of functional capacities which helps to survive in negative environmental conditions [73].Production of  SiO2 and  K+ from silicate minerals by Bacillus mucilaginous, Bacillus globisporus, and Bacillus circulans in fluid cultures was also examined in laboratory-based incubation tests [74]. It was found in these tests that B. mucilaginous break up the micaceous minerals and increased the release and availability of  SiO2 and  K+ from silicate crystal lattices. It was noted that the same bacteria did not produce any change in feldspar minerals [75]. B. mucilaginous  also released organic acids and polysaccha-rides [76]. The polysaccharides adsorbed these natural acids and linked with the surface of the minerals. The polysac-charides additionally adsorbed  SiO2 and this influences the exchange between the mineral and liquid stages and drives the response of  SiO2 and  K+ solubilization. These two mech-anisms decay the silicate minerals by using the bacterial species [75].3.2  PseudomonasPsedomonas bacteria are Gram-negative, oxygen-consuming species (aerobic bacilli) with an average size of about 0.5 to 0.8 μm by 1.5 to 3.0 μm [77]. This species is mostly motile with a single and polar flagellum [78]. DNA hybridization, genetic and biochemical tests are used to identify bacterial species [79].The results from numerous experiments demonstrated that the most noteworthy effect of silica is the phosphorus Table 2  Important silicon solubilizing bacterial generaBacterial genera Specifications Mechanisms Example ReferenceBacillus Rod-shaped, facultative anaerobic, Gram-positive organismsWithdrawal of  SiO2 and  K+ from silicate minerals. Production of natural acids of organic nature and polysaccharidesBacillus mucilaginosus, Bacillus globisporusBacillus circulans[73]Pseudomonas Gram-negative, aerobic bacilli Noteworthy effect of Si on P uptake and other supplements. Helpful alternate of chemical phosphate fertilizerPseudomonas syringae [79]Proteus Motile, Gram-negative rods, aerobic and facultativ anaerobic bacteriaTentatively polymerized silica Proteus mirabilis [84]Rhizobia Gram-negative, aerobic, nitrogen fixer Along with silicon solubilizationprovide organic nitrogenous compounds like glutamine to the plantStrides  N2 fixation and resistance towards saltiness pushRhizobium leguminosarum [89]Burkholderia Gram-negative, obligative high-impact, rod-shaped microbes, motileAlong with plant growth promotion solu-bilization of insoluble SiBurkholderia eburnean [110]Enterobacter Gram-negative,facultative anaerobesAs a silicon and phosphate biofertilizer, production of plant growth hormones, alkali, and an acid generation that com-pel plant development advancement and supplement disintegrationEnterobacter ludwigii [114]Silicon 1 3uptake and many other nutrients in the sorghum plants is stimulated by the Pseudomonas syringae [ 80]. After uti-lizing 600 mg/kg Si for culturing sorghum plants, it was observed the optimum concentration for the expansion of Si component measurement, under solvent P and beneath rock phosphate (RP) fertilization [81]. Treatment of plants at this concentration of Si had a substantial effect on plant development while overall parameters under an unstressed environment demonstrated that the impact of silica was not plant specific (utilized by recombinant plants). Results also recommend that silica along with RP fertilization had a synergistic impact which could be a helpful substitute for chemical phosphate fertilizer [82, 83].3.3  ProteusProteus belongs to the Enterobacteriaceae family. This class is comprised of motile, Gram-negative rods, aerobic, and facultatively anaerobic bacteria. Proteus may be part of the family Proteaceae, which too incorporates Providencia as well as Morganella [ 84].Mesophilic Proteus mirabilis is known to construct mono-mers of silica particles [65, 85]. Bacillus caldolyticus is a thermophilic bacterium that benefits silica-utilizing plants in high silica environments. Equisetum arvense, was found to create silicate monomers from its respective polymer [86, 87]. The monomer silica, converted from minerals of either tentatively polymerized silica, is take-up by Proteus mira-bilis and conjointly by Equisetum, that stores the silica as a polymer in its stem and takes off with B. caldolyticus, which cannot use depolymerized items under normal conditions [88].3.4  RhizobiaRhizobium belongs to the genus of Gram-negative dyazo-trophic bacteria that fix atmospheric dinitrogen gas. The bac-terial strains colonize plant root nodules and convert gase-ous soil nitrogen into ammonia with the help of the enzyme nitrogenase and release organic nitrogenous compounds like glutamine [89, 273].Advantageous mutualistic rhizobia-legumes associated bacteria like Rhizobium leguminosarum  are necessary to maintain productivity in drier agroecosystems affected by salinity which is a global issue for agricultural production [90]. Growth and crop yield are negatively influenced by the salinity [91]. Several findings have reported the posi-tive role of silicon and silicon mobilizing bacteria espe-cially rhizobacteria under stressful conditions including salinity stress. Silicon availability affects plant physiology and can improve plant growth and production under dif-ferent stresses [92– 94]. However, variations in beneficial the results has been reported in plant species because Si concentration varies from plant to plant and tissue to tissue [13]. It is also reported that the application of silicon low -ers the salts uptake importantly sodium and chloride and improves germination, growth and yield. Silicon is polymer -ized to mono-silicic acid or amorphous silica and the inverse of monomeric silica into polymeric forms is responsible for the Si element in agricultural soils [95]. Rhizobacteria were directly involved in this conversion through weathering and improved the silicon availability in soil–plant system. A study by at Indian Institute of Rice Research (IIRR) iso-lated Rhizobium (IIRR-1) from rice soil-rhizosphere and reported it as Si-solubilizing bacteria (SSB). They reported that IIRR-1 has the potential to mobilize as well as release soluble silica elements from biogenic-materials and min-eral-silicates. They also reported IIRR-1 also produced IAA and showed ACC-deaminase activities. They reported this specie of Rhizobium as a beneficial strain which has the potential to increase the silicone concentration in the rhizosphere by boosting the weathering of silica-minerals in the rhizosphere. Several other studies have also reported the bacteria-associated weathering of silicate-mineral and release of silica. Soil rhizosphere is considered a rich source of silica formation where bacterial activities are high due to a large number of organic acids, polysaccharides, hydroxyl ions, organic ligands, and enzyme production [96, 97]. Rice soil rhizosphere is considered an ideal condition for isola-tion of SSB [98, 99]. Strains CCNWYC119 (Rhizobium sp), H66T ( R. yantingense ) and Q34 ( Rhizobium tropici ) were isolated from the legumes rhizospharic soil has abilities to release/solubilize silica by weathering of silica-minerals [100– 102]. It is also reported that the release of Si from the silicate-mineral also dependent on mineral bonds, pressure, temperature and water content because, for a strong bond, high energy is needed to break minerals into a simpler form [103, 104]. This is the reason for variation in the concentra-tion of silica in different soil.Major sources of Si in soil are aluminum silicates that are usually unavailable for plant uptake by roots from soil regardless of its abundant availability [105]. Silicic acid is another plant Si source in soil when soil pH is less than 9 and as pH crossed 9, dissociation of silicic acid start into silicate ions [106]. Some studies stated that foliar applica-tion of Si with PGPR (plant growth promoting rhizobacteria) inoculation improved the plants growth and yield under differ -ent stresses [92, 94]. Recently, rhizobacteria inoculants have been prepared and applied with silicon to reduce the harmful effects caused by different stress [107]. Silicon and PGPRs have different beneficial effects on the plant from germina-tion to maturity till crop harvest [108]. It has been reported that Si and PGPRs have a synergistic relationship with each other and alleviate multiple stresses in crop plants [93]. It has also suggested that the combined application of PGPR and Si is a sustainable and powerful practice to improve plant  Silicon1 3germination, physiology, growth and yield under harsh condi-tions [108, 109].3.5  BurkholderiaThe Burkholderia class title alludes to Gram-negative, oblig-atory high-impact, rod-shaped microbes that are motile due to the presence of single or different polar flagella, with the exemption of Burkholderia mallei, which is immotile [110].Utilization of silicate-solubilizing microorganisms increases the Si take-up and has a critical impact on rice development and yield [111, 112]. In some cases, the silicate solubilization capacity of Burkholderia eburnean CS4-2 must be encouraged and compared with other known Si-solubilizing bacteria by utilizing varied Si sources under field conditions with diverse soils with changing pH conditions [93]. More-over, the yield parameters of few specific rice cultivars and other high Si consuming crops like sugarcane should be con-sidered. Most importantly, the chemical structure of CS4-2 for Si solubilization or mobilization must be understood [113].3.6  EnterobacterEnterobacter (class Enterobacter) rod-shaped microbes belong to the family Enterobacteriaceae. These bacteria are Gram-negative and are classified as facultative anaerobes suggesting that they can survive in both aerobic and anaerobic environ-ments [114]. The uptake of silicon and phosphorus during plant growth and development is significantly influenced by Enterobacter ludwigii GAK2 [115]. The strain E. ludwigii  GAK2 has a natural capacity to solubilize both phosphate and silicate that also delivers natural acids e.g. indole acetic acid and Gibberellic acid [116]. In this manner, E. ludwigii GAK2 can be utilized as the best inoculant for phosphate and silicon fertilizer to soil high in insoluble P and Si [115].While silicate is concentrated in the earth's crust, long-term P fertilization has resulted in Cd contamination due to repeated fertilizer applications of P fertilizers containing Cd. Enterobacter ludwigii  GAK2 helps solubilize phosphate and silicate minerals and improves the development of plants in Cd sullied soil [117]. This bacterium could be a reasonable or economical addition to phosphate and silicate fertilizer [116, 117]. Several isolated strains of E. ludwigii GAK2 increase the availability of silicate and phosphate through different mechanisms [118].4  Application of Silicon Solubilizing Bacteria for Agricultural ProductionSi plays a versatile role in agricultural soils and taken up by plant via mass flow and a plays vital role in germination, growth and yield of many crops e.g. maize [119], cotton [120, 121], rice [122], barley [123], oat [124] and sugar -cane [125] shown in Table  2. In 2012, wheat and rice had increased contents of Si and were assigned to be Si accumu-lators due to these observations [126, 127]. In agricultural lands, Si compounds are available in the form of liquid, solid as well as adsorbed fractions. The conversion of monomeric silica into polymeric forms is responsible for Si nutrients in agricultural soils [95]. Si accumulation in the plant pose positive impacts on the performance like as pest control, enhance nutrition and protection against biotic and abiotic stresses.Silica solubilizing bacteria are widely used in agriculture due to their location within the rhizosphere. These bacte-ria constitute a strong possibly symbiotic relationship with the crop to increase their yield and fruit development [128]. This equilibrium establishes a strong holistic relationship to resist pests and increase plant growth [47, 129]. Due to this fact, silica solubilizing bacteria are being evaluated as Yield Increasing Bacteria (YIB) [130]. Many species of the Pseudomonas and Bacillus are reported to increase the fruit development in maize, oil content in canola, pest resistance in wheat, drought resistance in pulses, and insect resistance in many legumes. The Chenopodiaceous plants, e.g., sugar beet, will increase its energy reserves when these bacteria are applied for plant uptake [131].These bacteria produce enzymes, growth hormones and several other metabolites that help to compete for the eco-logical niche [11, 132, 133]. They are also involved in the breakdown of organic amendments that increase humus content in the soil for better adaptability and better crop growth [134, 135]. Further, these bacteria help the plants to resist the infection by certain aphids and other pests [ 136, 137] thereby enabling the plant to cope with several other adverse environmental and climatic disturbances including water deficiency or elevated metal concentrations in soil [138– 140]. Silicon mobilizing bacteria effectively improve the soil chemical, physical and biological properties through different mechanisms as shown in Fig.  3. Recent studies sug-gest that Oryza sativa  can enhance the plant growth promot -ers including auxins while accumulating solutes like prolines [68, 141, 142].Silicon-based formulated chemicals are sprayed on the crops to improve the growth and crop yield under stressed conditions [ 116, 143]. Significance of silicon fertilization in soil health and crop production are given in Table  3. For-mulations available in the market include a variety of agro-chemicals.  R2SiO (R = any organic component) is used as a wetting agent in rice fields [144] and it is also considered an agricultural adjuvant due to its qualities as a good trans-porter of organic molecules [ 29, 95]. Silicic acid is trans -ported in major parts of the plant biomass and is transported in the xylem which is mediated by Lsi6 in the shoot while in roots by the Lsi1 and Lsi2 [ 145, 146].Silicon 1 35  Mechanisms of Si Solubilization by Si Solubilizing BacteriaWhile there are many microorganisms in the soil, not all microbes are Si solubilizers. Common silicon solubilizing bacteria are belonging to Bacillus sp., Rhizobia sp., Pseu-domonas sp., Burkholderia sp., Proteus sp. and Entero-bacter  sp. and discovered very effective in solubilizing the silicon. Most soil Si is derived from natural silicates [142] through different biological and chemical processes. Many species of bacteria are involved in the release and control of Si through various steps in the disintegration of primary minerals into secondary and tertiary minerals [70, 71]. These bacteria break down the silicates espe-cially to primarily and secondary silicates such as calcium silicates and aluminum silicate and change into available form of mobilize Si [150] as shown in Table  3. During solubilization process, these microorganisms secrete sev -eral types of organic compounds that can be acidic or basic in nature. In addition to these acids and bases, the soil electrical conductivity (EC), pH and soil water content are also important factors in the silicate mineral breakdown process [40, 151] shown in Fig.  1 and 2 . These compounds initiate the weathering process and release  SiO2 and K. Microbial breakdown and solubilization of silica miner -als is regarded as the primary plant source of silicon in the natural soil environment [68]. When these bacteria solubilize the silicon, the efficiency and activity of silicon mobilizing and other beneficial rhizobacteria increased. These rhizobacteria start to reuse the different compounds released during these solubilization and weathering pro-cesses shown in Fig.  1. During metabolism, silicon-solu-bilizing bacteria release a large number of organic acids, polysaccharides, hydroxyl ions, organic ligands, and Fig. 3  Effect of silicon mobiliz-ing bacteria on soil physical, chemical and biological proper -tiesTable 3  Significance of silicon fertilization in soil health and crop productionType of silicon-based fertilizer State of fertilizer Crop Function Yield(tons/hectares) ReferenceControl Silicon fertilizersMonosiliscis Potassium silicate solid Wheat Reduced fungal attack, increased yield3.20 ± 1.0 4.96 ± 3.0 [147, 148]Calcium silicate solid Sugarcane Reduced soil acidity, increased biomass57.0 ± 4.0 74.0 ± 2.0 [148, 149]Magnesium silicate, Monosilicic acidsolid Rice Reduced soil acidity,Increased soil phosphorus avail-ability1.48 ± 1.1 2.87 ± 2.7 [148, 149]Diatomites Solid & liquid Maize Increased soil aggregation, microbial activities3.86 ± 3.6 4.29 ± 4.3 [112, 149]Calcium silicate Solid & liquid Barley Reduce pH, increased nutrients absorption and plant biomass3.34 ± 2.4 5.99 ± 5.6 [112, 149] Silicon1 3enzymes that further aid in the silicate weathering process [96, 97]. During this process, organic acids (keto acids, oxalic acid, citric acid, and carbolic acid) are produced that combine with different type of cations and become readily available to plant by stimulating the hydrolysis and supplying  H+ ions to the medium [152, 153]. As soil pH increases, monomeric acids breakdown in the pres -ence of bases and hydrogen ions are removed [74]. This reaction continues in the presence of a base and the less stabilized polymorphs formed by the removal of hydrogen ion. The release of protons, hydroxyl-anions, enzymes, organic ligands and polysaccharides provide easy access to microorganisms for silicate minerals. These microorgan-isms convert silicates to soluble forms of silicon that are available for plant uptake [154].A few studies report that silica particle size influences the microbial population and subsequent soluble silica content [155]. Similarly, silica particle size also influences crop growth which is proved by a comprehensive analysis study by Kalia and Kaur. Still more investigation is needed to understand the potential use of silica using microbial mechanisms [156]. Plant are unable to uptake or absorb Si directly [157]. The manufactur -ing cost of synthetic silica-based fertilizers is high, while plant absorption of synthetic silica is quite low. Therefore, applica-tions of silicon solubilization bacteria could be a very important strategy to improve the silicon plant uptake. Silicon fertilization is absorbed by plants through the xylem with water by the active and passive process through the transpiration stream and transfer into plant via mass flow [158]. Silicon is mostly polymerized into mono-silicic acid or amorphous silica  (SiO2•nH2O) in the plant factory's oldest tissues, notably in the interior of epider -mal cells which thickens cell walls and promotes tissue strength and rigidity [158]. Comparable to glandular trichomes, silica deposition can occur in the cellular structures during cellulose biosynthesis. Silicon transport over long distances is limited by the xylem; however, significant Si quantities are collected in the xylem vessels by deposition in cell walls [159]. When the transport rate is high in situations with high vapor pressures, the deposition of Si is reduced in the xylem vessels [160]. This is a reason that the Si concentration in supporting tissues, grains, stems and leaves can still be detected at certain levels [161]. Usually, Si contents in the root system are one-tenth of the total available in leaves and stems; however, soybean roots contain a higher concentration of Si than leaves [162, 163]. Silica is mostly deposited in the sheath cells, epidermis and vascular bundles but also in cell lumens, cell walls, intercellular matrix, and beneath the cuticle [164, 165]. Sometimes during the deg-radation of protoplast silica is deposited in greater concentration in infected tissues [166, 167]. Silicon contents increase in plant parts of high permeability, such as stomatal-guard cells, leaf epidermis around trichomes, thorns, and reduce the negative effects of biotic and abiotic stresses [168].6  Role of Bacteria in the Dissolution of Si from Insoluble ResourcesSilica rocks (mica, feldspar, pyroxene, and quartz) include a wide variety of important minerals and are a potential source of micro and macronutrients. These silicates can be an important source to fulfil a plants nutritional require-ments [169, 170]. Despite of that, several silicate rocks seem unsuitable for plant fertilization. Therefore, miner -alogical and chemical properties of such rocks should be appropriate to meet soil properties and crop requirement. Most important determinant factor of nutrient mobility and availability in soil is the dissolution rate of mineral from rocks [170]. In this aspect, the soil microorganisms play a vital role to increase weathering of silica rocks Fig.  4. Silicate rocks could remineralize the soil via the forma-tion of smectite minerals. The application of silica sources and SSB together could improve the soil physicochemical properties decrease the toxicity by excess elements [171].All the essential nutrients required to plant except nitro-gen are derived and available through the weathering rocks (mineral rocks). Plant releases different exudates through roots that are mixture of chemical-ligands and organic acids that increase the mineral solubilization/mobilization [172]. Root exudation increases with increasing demand of nutrition and upsurges with increase of primary-root surface area [173]. Root exudates coupled with sugars, amino-acids, certain enzymes, fatty-acids, sterols, and secondary-metabolites and create a nutritional environ-ment around rhizosphere that help plant to sustain under diverse microorganisms population [174]. In rhizosphere, the combined activity of bacteria and root exudates stimu-lates the weathering and solubilization minerals at higher rates [175].Silicate dissolution from insoluble resources by micro-bial activities can either be a collateral or an active process. This is high energy-consuming process which releases certain metabolites that influence the silica solubi-lization [176]. However, most frequently occurring weath-ering occurs in response of microbial growth under cel-lular control and satisfying their nutritional requirements. Consequently, microbial community and mineral composi-tion are both directly influence the minerals solubilization/mobilization from insoluble [176]. The key mechanism behind microbial solubilization involves chelation, pH changes and redox reactions that lead to the dissolution of minerals in the matrix of insoluble particles/mineral resources that promote the proton-dependent dissolution of silicates, furthermore the chelation of elements via various acids and enzymes, and redox reactions [177].Some bacteria release inorganic acids e.g. sulfuric acid by sulfur-oxidizing bacteria (Thiobacillus genus) and Silicon 1 3nitric acid by nitrifying bacteria [178]. These acids also promote the weathering of silica-minerals. Furthermore, organic acids like pyruvic-acids, formic-acids, citric-acids, gluconic-acids, acetic-acids, lactic-acids, oxalic-acids and succinic-acids also produced by bacteria that enhance the weathering. The pH alteration by microbial activities also promotes the solubilization of silica ions. These acids are released as byproducts of the carbon metabolic processes [177, 179]. Presence of carbonic anhydrase involved in aerobic respiration release  CO2 that led to carbonic acid formation, an important mechanism related to acidifica-tion. Enzyme production activities of several bacterial strains [180], also promote Si weathering [181]. Organic acids create acidic condition in the surrounding environ-ment of minerals, and their deprotonated form develop a specific type of chelate ions that enhance dissolution rates of insoluble silica. Similarly, carboxylic groups associated with this organic acid are mostly negatively charged after dissociation from  H+ ion and act as ligand sites for cations. Therefore, their number affects the chelating capacity of microbes. It is noted that di and tricarboxylic acids are comparatively more efficient mineral solubilizers in com-parison to monocarboxylic acids [182]. Siderophores are foremost chelating-agents released by bacteria promote the mineral weathering [183].Dissolution of a mineral can also be done through changing the crystalline structure of minerals via oxida-tion–reduction reactions by specific compounds present in it [184]. During anaerobic respiration, microbial strains use metals as terminal electron acceptors and accelerate the S- solubilization. Bacterial strains belonging to Desul-furomonas  and  Shewanella  have oxidize  Fe2+ and carbon -ate and use as electron acceptor under anaerobic condition. This reaction accelerates the weathering of phyllosilicates mineral such as glauconite and biotite. This property also detected in Geoalkalibacter ferrihydriticus Z-0531 T [185].Rhizobacteria strain CS4-2 ( Burkholderia eburnean ) have the ability to solubilize and mobilize the silica and enhance Si-uptake in rice that improved plant-growth relevant to control or uninoculated [129]. Significantly improvement in the growth and yield of plant has recorded by combined application of silica solubilizing bacteria and insoluble silica fertilization.Bacteria strains IIRR-1 (Rhizobium sp) has the ability increase the release of Si from the silica minerals [186]. Besides Si solubilization bacteria also showed ACC deami-nase activity and IAA production that promote associ -ated plant growth and capacity to fight against different stresses. Si-solubilizing bacterial strains 3C1 (Flavobacte-rium spp.) 4A2 ( Bacillus spp.) and 3C5 (Pseudomonas spp.) isolated from the gut of the earthworm has potential to solu-bilize and release of Si from mineral (quartz and feldspar). It is reported that strain 3C1 enhanced the Si contents in the soil along with uptake in maize plants [187].7  Soil Silicon ChemistrySilicon significances as a beneficial element has been increased since last few decades due to its role in the plant functionality and agricultural production. It is reported that the Si concentration in the uncultivated soil is more than the agricultural soils. This is because of crop harvest prac-tices which are generally associated with the Si loss. How this is not true in all case, few agricultural activities such Fig. 4  Direct/indirect role of Si solubilizing bacteria in plant growth enhancement under stress conditions Silicon1 3as crop reside burning, Si fertilization and liming [59, 274, 275]. Generally in agricultural as well as non-agricultural soil Si-pools are present in liquid/solution form, solid phase and as an organic complexes [188]. Si fraction in the soil solution present in the form of monomers and oligomers which lately changed into Si-polymers and precipitate and become available to plant in different fraction. The solubility of silicon increased with increasing pH and temperature of the medium and in pure water silicone has almost 100 ppm solubility [189]. Several other factors than pH and tempera-ture like concentration of silicic acid, other ions (Ca, K, Na etc.), organic C, crop residue etc. also influenced the Si con-centration [190]. A study conducted in UK at Rothamsted center reported that continuously removal of wheat straw from field significantly reduced the Si concentration in the soil [276]. Klotzbucher team concluded that the mobility of Si in soil sorption ability of Si with other competitive com-pounds [277]. Comparatively, Si element has more complex-ity as compared to many other elements due to its slow rate of reaction and reliant on different Si sources and species. However, the solubility of Si in the soil is influenced by dif-ferent soil processes such polymerization, depolymerization, and condensation and Si releases varies in the soil system. It is recorded in a forest study that the polymerization of Si increased with increased in pH after pH of 4 [191]. Some-times, Si become unavailable due to absorption on the soil particle especially Fe or Al oxides/hydroxide [188, 192]. While solid phase of Si consisted of different amorphous Si: (1) minerogenic form like silica-nodules such as pedo-genic oxides (iron oxide); (2) biogenic form such as phyto-liths and shells (radiolarian, diatom, testate amoeba, etc.) [188, 193]. Other solid Si forms included micro and poorly crystalline such as imogolite, allophane, secondary quartz, and chalcedony. Mineralogists used the term amorphous to define the non-crystalline form of Si. While in soil chemist, used this term to quantify the amount of Si in the soil by reagent extraction methods. Additionally, crystalline form of Si classified as a primary silicate (pyroxenes, olivines, micas, quartz, etc.). Si leaching is a major process through Si leached to down soil profile and this process call soil desili -cation and accumulates in the soil. Desilication is most com-mon process in the soils of tropical areas [194]. Desilication has also chances to occur in young soil especially soils of boreal regions [193]. While soils of temperate humid areas enriched with Si may be due to the formation of fragipan in the subsoil [193]. In acidic soils, Si is present in the form of amorphous Si which coated on minerals [188]. This Si accumulates in soil pores as a SiO and forms distinct soil horizons and this process called duripan [ 194]. In semi-arid soils, frequent desiccation during the dry season developed a silicate layer (massive sedimentary fraction) and harden-ing caused the precipitation and redistribution of SiO2 [188, 190]. Therefore, it is very important to shed the light on the silicon soil chemistry for better understanding of Si-cycle, soil availability and functionality and factors which effects the Si-cycle.8  Silicon Effects on PlantsGenerally, silicon is not considered as an essential nutrient but recently its status has changed to a beneficial element [142] because of its beneficial role in plant growth and yield particularly under stress conditions (Fig.  5). These beneficial and positive impacts have been recorded in different crops including sugarcane [125], barley [123, 124] and rice [122, 195]. From the soil solution, Si is taken up mostly from silicic acid by plant roots and translocated through differ -ent paths to shoots where it is stored and precipitated in plants during plant growth and development activities [196, 197]. Most of the silicon solubilizing bacteria are involved in enhanced nutrient uptake, increased photosynthesis, plant growth attributes and crop yield along with the alleviation of various biotic and abiotic stresses [16]. Plants with Si concentrations > 1% are considered accumulators and those plants with < 0.5% as excluders and plants having concentra-tions between these limits are recognized as intermediates [9, 10]. Seven major crops (maize, wheat, sugarcane, rice, soybean, barley and sugar beet); are classified as accumula-tors [127]. Several forage grasses are also called accumula-tors because their leaves accumulate Si between the ranges of 1–5% [198]. Silicon among all the beneficial elements is one element that does not behave in a detrimental role in plants when accumulated in excess [199]. In a natural eco-system, Si returned to the soil through the decomposition of plant litter into biogenic Si pools and again become the part of Si cycle in soil. In agricultural systems, a significant amount of this phytolith Si is taken up by plants and poten-tially lost during harvest due to crop removal. It is reported that globally on an average year 210–224 million tons of Si are removed through crop production by crop harvest [ 193]. This kind of continuous Si removal at harvest is considered the scenario that could promote the desilication in agricul-tural soils if the plant biomass is not returned to the soil surface. Therefore, to replenish lost Si, Si fertilization under 100 ppm concentration is considered the good strategy to improve the Si concentration in soil for soil health and future crop production [200].Enhanced soil Si bioavailability is generally associ-ated with increased Si content in the plant [163]. Numer -ous grasses have shown improved productivity and growth because of silicon application. Rice, sugarcane, sorghum, millet, are common crops that benefit from silica fertiliza-tion. Overall, Si concentration in plants varies from 0.1 to 10% of the total dry matter [20]. Accumulator plants have leaves consisting of more than 1% of their dry matter, while Silicon 1 3non-accumulator plants have leaves consisting of less than 0.5% [201]. The absorbing ability of plants for Si varies significantly, and is even different in genotypes of the same species and sometimes varies in tissues [126]. It is reported that the accumulation of Si in the rice is directly linked with the yield increment in the rice [202]. Lab study also demon-strated a decrease in the concentration of Si led to a reduc-tion in rice yield. Silicon plays an important role to mitigate the drought stress for many crops [203]; [105] through the reduction of plant transpiration by increasing resistance in the plant against the drought [204]. A few studies also sug-gested that it increased the transpiration rate while decreas-ing during drought stress conditions [205]. Interestingly, stress mitigation in the plant by the application of Si is not totally due to improving the plant performance but can also be due to improving the plant-soil–water relationship. It is also reported in the literature that the application of Si increased the soil water holding capacity. The applica-tion of amorphous silicon increased the soil water holding capacity and increased the plant water availability [105]. Another study suggested that the accumulation of silicon in the leaves above-ground biomass of the plant reduces the heat stress caused by ultraviolet radiations. Studies reported that a silicon layer is formed near the epidermis which may work as a filter against this radiation [206]. Moreover, stud-ies also reported that the application of decreased metal/metalloids toxicity and mitigated salts stress [207, 208]. Silicon accumulation in the plant-biomass work as a defen-sive tool against insects and mammals (herbivores) [209, 210]. Several studies concluded that fungal diseases reduce in the rice on the application of Si which may be due to the formation of a Si layer around the mesophyll cell [211]. The soil management practices of Si increase and/or maintain the crop yield/production. Si application increases nutri-ent use efficiency (NUE), plant nutrition, crop growth, and yield/production, especially under stress conditions. Finally, improving the Si fraction in the soil stimulates the Si accu-mulation in the plant biomass and acts as a promising alter -native to chemical fertilizers and pesticides at the farmer level [212].Indeed, growth promoting bacteria act via several mecha-nisms and during various activities, expression of their genes relies on fluctuating environmental conditions and require-ments. Silica and silica-based nanoparticles were reported to have an impact on the microbial biomass and colony for -mation and this elevation directly or indirectly enhance the fertility of soil. Sensitivity of microbes to various chemical substances, amendments or bio augmentations, furthermore application of nutrients like silica subsequently favors and design the selective enrichment of various microbial com-munities. In this context, rhizosphere play a very important role in the maintenance of healthy and nutrient rich soil pro-filing and plant’s health and yield. Influential role of silicon particles was noted in context of increased soil microbiota and soil nutrient content that enhance plant growth. Appli-cation of silicon and silicon-based nanoparticles increased population of phosphate solubilizing bacteria and nitrogen fixing bacteria in the rhizosphere. Silicon application also augment the rhizospheric population of Rhodobacteriaceae, Paenibacillus and fungal genera Chaetomium by modula-tion of signaling system that regulate the expression of cer -tain genes. Changes in metabolites, organic acids, sugars, alcohols and fatty acids revealed the effects of Si on the nitrogen and carbon pools in rhizospheric soil. However, Fig. 5  Application of Si-solubi-lizing bacteria result in dissolu-tion of insoluble Si to improve soil properties and enhance plant growth Silicon1 3oversaturation of Si or Si nanoparticles result in the altera-tion in the gene expression (amoA), dehydrogenase and urease activity of bacteria and archea residing in the soil. Silicon is also reported to modulate the signaling system of defense genes related to the structural modification of cell walls, hypersensitivity response, and hormone synthesis and protein production. Silion was also reported to regulate significant genes in the plants amended with Si as compared to plants without Si that not only control abiotic stresses but also suppress various bacterial and fungal pathogens. Higher expression of Lsi1 gene in roots of rice plant that increase plant growth from panicle initiation to heading in Oryza sative. Upregulation of another gene expression osNAC proteins by Si involved in proline synthesis, biosyn-thesis of certain sugars, redox homeostasis, reduced oxida-tive stress and enhanced photosynthetic activity alleviate the salt and heavy metal stress in plants. Application of Si under saline conditions enhance the expression of AREB, TAS14, NCED3 and CRK1 gene that were noted to trigger modifi-cations in plant cell metabolism in Solanum lycopersicum  plants. Furthermore, Si transported genes were discovered in plants that regulate the uptake and loading unloading of Si in plants [138– 140].9  Significances of Silicon in the Uptake of NutrientsJörg Schaller et al. [212] shaded light on the role of Si in the availability and uptake of nutrients and reported that silicon plays a vital role in the OM decomposition and the avail -ability of many micro- and macro- nutrients. Therefore, it is very important to investigate the role of Si in agricultural production under different practices. Ofir Katz et al. [213] reported that Si not only involved in the dynamic of Si-cycle but also influenced the C-, N- and P-cycle.N is an essential macronutrient and basic component of plant cell but its deficiency in the soil considered to be most important factor for controlling plant growth and out-put [213, 214]. The crop quality and yield can be enhanced by using considerable amount of N fertilizers. However, in many condition desired yield not achieved due to N defi-ciency like abiotic stress [ 215, 216]. In many cases, most fraction of applied N is lost which enforced pressure on the farmers to achieve maximum crop production [217]. Plant uptake < 40% of applied N and leftover fraction is leached into groundwater or lost into environment and cause threat to ecosystem [218, 219]. Studies proved that presence of Si in the soil increase the availability of nutrients (N, P and K) but extent of increased is not known well. Studies also proved that the external application of Si play vital role in the N-metabolism and N-dynamic in soil (uptake, loss and assimilation/remobilization) [220, 221]. It is reported that application of Si alleviates the nitrogen deficiency in differ -ent crop by improving the nitrogen acquisition through root system [222]. Under limited availability of N, application of silicic acid has increased the uptake and accumulation of plant N [223, 224] in rice, maize, cowpea, rapeseed and wheat [59, 201, 225– 277]. Experimental findings revealed that foliar as well as soil application of Si reduced the min-eral nitrogen-fertilizers requirement in several crops [225, 229]. Deus et al. [225] stated that Si-fertilizer increased 19% of crop production in several crops as compared to control treatment under N deficit soil [225]. Exact mechanism is still unknown but it has been partially reported that silicic acid production increased the amino acid production which remobilizes the N in soil [230].Jörg Schaller et al. [212] also reported that presence of Si increased the P availability in soil. Soil mineral composi-tions and biogeochemical activities are the important factors which that influence the P availability. Phosphorus and Si deficiency lead to reduced P accumulation hence retarded plant growth and physiology can be observed. Inclusion of Si solution can raise P accumulation that reduce electro-lyte leakage due to stress and increase chlorophyll index of sorghum plant leaves [270]. Several studies stated that Si alleviate the P-deficiency in potato, maize, wheat and rice under limited P conditions [228, 231, 232]. Two major phenomenon are reported commonly involved in the alliva-tion of P deficiency by Si included: (1) increased P-uptake by roots, (2) enhancement of P acquisition and utilization in plant tissues [233]. In addition to low P situtaion, under high P fraction case P also become unavailable to plant due binding and complexation with iron oxide, Aluminum, cal-cium minerals. Likewise N, the P availability in soil also depend on the soil pH, mineral surface area and mineral composition. Furthermore, P availability also influence by soil type, amount and type of Si fertilizers, their application rate and soil biota composition [234]. At higher pH than 6.5, P become immobilized by forming mineral complexes like calcium phosphate. While under low pH, P absorbed or bounded with Fe, Al, Mn as well as their hydrous oxides [235]. This is the major reason of P distribution among Si, Ca, Al or Fe highly dependent on pH and mineral composi-tion and parent material [ 236]. For this reason, bioavail-ability of Si is often very low in the many soils. Increased P availability in soil is usually associated with the increase of P concentration in plant tissues and thus plant growth improve under low-P concentration [237]. P stress has also been reported in a few hydroponic cultures and greenhouse studies even P sources were applied [238]. This is proved by studies that P mobilization is affected by the Si. In high silicate mineral soils, P particle less bound to the soil min-eral [239]. P binds with different form of iron like Fe (II and III) while Si interact with both Fe and P [240]. It is recorded Silicon 1 3that in permafrost soils, high concentration of Si mobilizes both P and Fe from Fe (II) P and boost the P fraction in the soil. Furthermore, P can also mobilized and bind from/to Fe (III) oxide [241]. Study by Sigg and Stumm, [242] described that the  H3PO4 and silicic acid compete for the Fe mineral site. This may be the main reason that releases P into soil under high Si. Releases of silicic acid from the Si source in the soil compete with other nutrients for surface area on the mineral sites and case immobilization of the nutrients [241, 243]. Under such circumstances, application of Si fertilizers can be work as plus point to increase the P availability from unavailable P sources [244] and P availability also increased from soil to plant. The second major reason of higher P in the Si rich soil is the role of Si in OM decomposition. Higher Si concentration increased the OM decomposition and release the nutrients in the soil. However, Si has not significantly changed the P uptake in rice even Si source was applied [245]. This study did not show any significant changes in the P uptake due to presence or absence of Si. However inorganic P contents in shoots were found double where Si solutions were applied as compared to non-appli-cation [ 246]. The Si concentration in shoots reduced slightly as P concentration increased, but P concentration did not change Si uptake. It has also been reported that under low P concentration, Si decreased the uptake of Fe and Mn by almost 20% and 50%, respectively and in result in P:Mn and P:Fe ratios increased in plants [247]. Furthermore, results also showed that plant growth and development improved by Si application under P stress. Low concentration of Mn and Fe might be responsible for increase of P availability in plant under P-deficient conditions [248, 249].Additionally, application of Si has a significant impact on the Fe availability in soil rhizosphere to root along with the genes that are involved in Fe transport at the root and leaf levels [238]. It has also influence the remobilization and dis-persion of Fe within various plant organs and tissues [250].Si interact with plant Fe through two strategies; strategy-1 dicots and non-graminaceous monocots with reduction-based Fe uptake, and strategy-2 graminaceous monocots that exhibit chelation-based Fe uptake. In both strategies, plant species have demonstrated the relieving effects of Si on Fe insufficiency [251 ]. Additionally, researchers discovered that the Si-ameliorative impact on Fe deficiency was pH- and species- dependent. In a cucumber study, it is demonstrated that enhancing the expression of important genes that are responsible for the production of organic acids can be work as powerful Fe chelators which enhance apoplastic Fe-mobi-lization by extending the adsorption pool for Fe in the root apoplast and Si input to roots [252].Numerous studies on the role of Si in Fe-toxicity in rice have shown that Si reduces Fe-toxicity by precipitating Fe in the growth media or forming Fe film at the root surface. According to one theory, the presence of Si in rice reduces the translocation and uptake of Fe to aerial portions, lessen-ing Fe concentrations in both leaf and root tissues of plants subjected to excessive Fe [253]. In some recent studies on rice and cucumber, Si was found to increase the forming of Fe plaques, which reduced Fe uptake and triggered root reac-tions to Fe deficiency [254]. These studies also suggested that Si may cause an apoplastic obstruction even at optimal Fe supply [255].Potassium (K) is another essential macronutrient play vital role in plant physiology, biology, growth, and crop yield. Therefore, K nutrient role cannot be underestimated [256, 257]. Thus, under salt stress increasing K levels and K/Na ratio have been emphasized as essential traits of salt-tolerant plant species [258, 259]. Many studies have reported, sili-con (Si) removes K deficiency symptoms during salt stress in many crops [260]. In barley under salt stress, Si additions have promoted the K absorption by roots [261, 262]. In wheat, Si application has also increased the K contents in shoots and roots cultivated under 100 mM concentration of NaCl [205]. In sugarcane under salt stress, Si application reduced the K/Na ratio and improved K concentration of sugarcane shoot [263]. It is reported that application of Si increases the surviv -ability of plants against salt stress under limited production of K. Conversely, earlier research has focused on Si-induced variations in K concentration, leaving that gap on how Si could improve K status in plants under salt stress which is still unanswered. Salt stress has negative effect on K nutrition in plant and plant biology. Recognizing the importance of K, it is no surprise that plants have a complex K uptake and transport system with a variety of functional and regulatory features that allows them to adjust to changing K concen-trations in the growing medium [264]. K assimilation and transportation system definitely play an important role in the governing effect of Si on K status in plants under salt stress [238]. K channels and K transporters in plant roots facilitate internal and external transport of K from substrates through trans-membrane. However, the relative importance of these channels and transporters to uptake K in plants for growth varies with K concentrations [265, 266].In a hydroponic study, it was recorded that Si application mitigate the nutritional stress and reduce the visible symp-toms of nutrient deficiency in plants under varying nutrients treatment. It was noted that Si did not completely manage the damage caused by nitrogen deficiency in plants however, mitigation of K and S deficiency stress [267]. Nutrient defi-ciency is quite common in forages fields, Ca, P and N are dominantly the depletion from such soil. Use of balanced Si nutrient solution can enhance ability of plants to uptake nutrients from soil, their growth, vigor and yield by increas-ing shoot dry weight, phenolic contents, and photosynthetic pigments. Further, it decreases the extravasation of cellular based electrolytes. Ability of a plant to uptake N, P and S nutrient in deficient soils enhanced the yield of Urochloa  Silicon1 3brizantha and Megathyrus maximum which revealed Si can be used to amendment under nutrient deficient soil [268]. In maize, soil application or foliar spray of Si alleviate the K deficiency and enhanced growth and yield. Under K defi-ciency conditions plants showed low photosynthetic rate, less nutrient uptake and reduced gas exchange which led to stunted vegetative growth. However, Si application relieve the stress by enhancing water use efficiency, increased dry matter with elevated level of chlorophyll pigments [269]. In Chenopodium  quinoa plants Si augmentation mitigates the deficiency of N, P, K, Ca and Mg by protecting photosyn-thetic machinery and its metabolism. Moreover, Si amend-ment increase the membrane integrity, reduce the electro-lyte leakage and stabilizes the plant as compared to plants without any Si application [271]. K deficiency is a common problem in bean plant and foliar application of Si limits the drastic effects of deficiency and enhance plant growth and yield [269]. Finally, it is very important to understand the role of silicic acid in the Si-cycle and availability of nutrient under different environment and cropping system to obtain knowledge better nutrients management.10  ConclusionThis review paper evaluates the significance of silicon (Si) and silicon mobilizing bacteria and their impact on agricultural crop production. Overuse of inorganic ferti-lizer increased yields but may be deleterious to beneficial microorganism and the soil–plant ecosystem. In such cir -cumstances, the application of beneficial microbes is an alternative and eco-friendly strategy for a sustainable agri-cultural system. In this review, we stay focused on biochemi-cal processes that are modified by the activities of silicon mobilizer/solubilizer bacteria to enhance the effectiveness of agronomic practices. We found that the application of silicon fertilizer or silicon mobilizer/solubilizer bacteria sup-presses the pathogens, increased soil fertility, and improved plant growth and yield under stress as well as in normal conditions. The application of these bacteria as an inoculum through soil or seed increased the plant health and yield, especially under stressful conditions and also increased the availability of other plant nutrients in the rhizosphere. We also found that organic matter, EC, pH, clay contents, and Al/Fe oxides are important factors to be considered for the recommendation of Si-fertilizers or Si-inoculum. Applica -tion of cheap industrial byproducts as a source of Si and Si mobilizer/solubilizer bacteria may become potential agro-nomic practices for several crops, especially under stresses (biotic and abiotic) that may reduce the yield of crops. This approach is more sustainable than conventional fertilization practices and may contribute to reducing climate change that is linked to agricultural activity. This review arose due to the need to gain a better understanding of the role of Si nutrients and Si mobilizer/solubilizer bacteria for soil health and crop production; 1) what is the size of the silicon pool in the rhizosphere; 2) how much Si is lost from the soil every year through the different processes such as leaching, etc. 3) What factors drive Si-cycling? 4) What are the major factors influencing soil Si availability; 5) What major factors control microbial silicon decomposition; 6) The impact of increased microbial weathering of to meet the Si nutritional require-ment? 7) What is the effective way to apply Si mobilizer/sol-ubilizer through seed inoculation or with mineral fertilizers? 8) Regardless of lab trials, long-term field research trials are required to validate the effectiveness of Si mobilizer/solubi-lizer bacteria in agronomic practices. Moreover, awareness campaigns by extensions and agriculture officers to farmers about the important potential role of Si in crop production.Abbreviations Si: Silicon; AAPFCO: Association of American plant food control officials; AE: Agricultural efficiency; PE: Physiological efficiency; NUE: Nitrogen use efficiency; PGPR: Plant growth pro-moting rhizobacteria; RP: Rocks phosphate; YIB: Yield increasing bacteria; AMF: Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi; SSB: Silicone solubi-lizing bacteria; PSB: Phosphate solubilizing bacteria; PSB: Potassium solubilizing bacteria; OM: Organic matter; TOC: Total organic carbon; RP: Rock phosphateAuthor Contributions All authors contributed equally to design and conceptualize this study. Data collection and write-up were performed by [Taqi Raza, Mazahir Abbas, and Amna. The idea and concept of this review were given by Muhammad Yahya Khan. Reviewing, Editing and Improving (grammar and quality) of the manuscript were conducted by Neal Samuel Eash and Shakeel Imran. Literature search, citation, and formatting were carried out by Ansa Rabi and Zeinab Rafie-Rad. The first draft of the manuscript was written by [Taqi Raza] and all authors commented on previous versions of the manuscript.Funding The authors declare that no funds, grants, or other support were received during the preparation of this manuscript.Data Availability Not applicable.Declarations All authors read and approved the final manuscript.Ethics Approval All authors ethically approved the submission.Consent to Participate Yes. All permission granted.Consent for Publication Yes. All permission granted.Competing Interests/Conflict of Interest There is no conflict of interest between authors.References 1. Liang Y, Nikolic M, Bélanger R, Gong H, Song A (2015) Silicon in Agriculture. Springer, DordrechtSilicon 1 3 2. Haynes RJ (2014) A contemporary overview of silicon avail-ability in agricultural soils. J Plant Nutri Soil Sci 177:831–844 3. Heckman J (2012) Silicon and soil fertility. The soil profile 20:1–12 4. Heckman J (2013) Silicon: a beneficial substance. Better Crops 97:14–16 5. Viciedo DO, de Mello PR, Toledo RL, dos Santos LCN, Hurtado AC, Nedd LLT, Gonzalez LC (2019) Silicon supplementation alleviates ammonium toxicity in sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.). J Soil Sci Plant Nutri 19:413–419 6. Golubkina N, Zayachkovsky V, Sheshnitsan S, Skrypnik L, Antoshkina M, Smirnova A, Fedotov M, Caruso G (2022) Pros -pects of the application of garlic extracts and selenium and sili-con compounds for plant protection against herbivorous pests: a review. Agriculture 12:64 7. Mostofa MG, Rahman MM, Ansary MMU, Keya SS, Abdelrah-man M, Miah MG, Phan Tran LS (2021) Silicon in mitigation of abiotic stress-induced oxidative damage in plants. Crit Rev Biotechnol 41:918–934 8. Vasanthi N, Saleena LM, Raj SA (2014) Silicon in crop pro-duction and crop protection-A review. Agri Rev 35:14–23 9. Frew A, Weston LA, Reynolds OL, Gurr GM (2018) The role of silicon in plant biology: a paradigm shift in research approach. Ann Bot 121:1265–1273 10. Zhang W, Xie Z, Lang D, Cui J, Zhang X (2017) Beneficial effects of silicon on abiotic stress tolerance in legumes. J Plant Nutri 40:2224–2236 11. Javaid T, Farooq MA, Akhtar J, Saqib ZA, Anwar-ul-Haq M (2019) Silicon nutrition improves growth of salt-stressed wheat by modulating flows and partitioning of Na+, Cl− and mineral ions. J Plant Physiol Biochem 141:291–299 12. Yan G-C, Nikolic M, Ye M-J, Xiao Z-X, Liang Y-C (2018) Sili-con acquisition and accumulation in plant and its significance for agriculture. J Integr Agric 17:2138–2150 13. Abdel Latef AA, Tran L-SP (2016) Impacts of priming with silicon on the growth and tolerance of maize plants to alkaline stress. Front Plant Sci 7:243 14. Debona D, Rodrigues FA, Datnoff LE (2017) Silicon’s role in abiotic and biotic plant stresses. Annu Rev Phytopathol 55:85–107 15. Hussain I, Parveen A, Rasheed R, Ashraf MA, Ibrahim M, Riaz S, Afzaal Z, Iqbal M (2019) Exogenous silicon modulates growth, physio-chemicals and antioxidants in barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) exposed to different temperature regimes. SILI-CON 11:2753–2762 16. Epstein E (2009) Silicon: its manifold roles in plants. Ann Appl Biol 155:155–160 17. Ali S, Rizwan M, Ullah N, Bharwana SA, Waseem M, Farooq MA, Abbasi GH, Farid M (2016) Physiological and biochemi-cal mechanisms of silicon-induced copper stress tolerance in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). Acta Physiol Plant 38:1–11 18. Chaiwong N, Prom-u-Thai C, Bouain N, Lacombe B, Rouached H (2018) Individual versus combinatorial effects of silicon, phosphate, and iron deficiency on the growth of lowland and upland rice varieties. Int J Mol Sci 19:899 19. Tuna AL, Kaya C, Higgs D, Murillo-Amador B, Aydemir S, Girgin AR (2008) Silicon improves salinity tolerance in wheat plants. Environ Exp Bot 62:10–16 20. Epstein E (1994) The anomaly of silicon in plant biology. Proc Natl Acad Sci 91:11–17 21. Datnoff L (2002) in Abstract of second silicon in agriculture conference, 2002 22. Miyake Y, Takahashi E (1983) Effect of silicon on the growth of solution-cultured cucumber plant. Soil Sci Plant Nutr 29:71–83 23. Onodera I (1917) Chemical studies on rice blast (1). J Sci Agric Soc 180:606–617 24. Chen J, Caldwell RD, Robinson CA, Steinkamp R (2000) Silicon: The estranged medium element. Bull 341:1–5 25. Elsokkary I (2018) Silicon as a beneficial element and as an essential plant nutrient: an outlook. Alex Sci Exch 39:534–550 26. Fox RL, Silva JA (1978) Symptoms of Plant Malnutrition-Sil-icon, an Agronomically Essential Nutrient for Sugarcane. Uni-versity of Hawaii, Honolulu (HI) 27. Pereira HS, Korndörfer GH, Vidal AdA, Camargo MSd (2004) Silicon sources for rice crop. Sci Agrí 61:522–528 28. Richmond KE, Sussman M (2003) Got silicon? The non-essential beneficial plant nutrient. Curr Opin Plant Biol 6:268–272 29. Choy J-H, Choi S-J, Oh J-M, Park T (2007) Clay minerals and layered double hydroxides for novel biological applications. Appl Clay Sci 36:122–132 30. White AF, Blum AE, Schulz MS, Bullen TD, Harden JW, Peter -son ML (1996) Chemical weathering rates of a soil chronose-quence on granitic alluvium: I. Quantification of mineralogical and surface area changes and calculation of primary silicate reac-tion rates. Geochim Cosmochim Ac 60:2533–2550 31. Gadd GM (2010) Metals, minerals and microbes: geomicrobiol-ogy and bioremediation. Microbiol 56:609–643 32. Webley D, Henderson ME, Taylor IF (1963) The microbilogy of rocks and weathered stones. J Soil Sci 14:102–112 33. Minden V, Schaller J, Venterink HO (2021) Plants increase sili-con content as a response to nitrogen or phosphorus limitation: a case study with Holcus lanatus. Plant Soil 462:95–108 34. Chandrakala C, Voleti S, Bandeppa S, Kumar NS, Latha P (2019) Silicate solubilization and plant growth promoting poten-tial of Rhizobium sp. isolated from rice rhizosphere. SILICON 11:2895–2906 35. Klotzbücher T et al (2015) Plant-available silicon in paddy soils as a key factor for sustainable rice production in Southeast Asia. Basic Appl Ecol 16:665–673 36. Cornelis J-T, Delvaux B, Georg R, Lucas Y, Ranger J, Opfergelt S (2011) Tracing the origin of dissolved silicon transferred from various soil-plant systems towards rivers: a review. Biogeosci 8:89–112 37. Lavoie K, Northup D (2001) Geomicrobiology of caves: a review. Geomicrobiol J 18:199–222 38. Sauro F et al (2018) Microbial diversity and biosignatures of amorphous silica deposits in orthoquartzite caves. Sci Rep 8:1–14 39. Vasanthi N, Saleena L, Raj SA (2018) Silica solubilization poten-tial of certain bacterial species in the presence of different silicate minerals. SILICON 10:267–275 40. Zijlstra HJ (1987) Early diagenetic silica precipitation, in relation to redox boundaries and bacterial metabolism, in Late Cretaceous chalk of the Maastrichtian type locality. Geol Mijnb 66:343–355 41. Artyszak A (2018) Effect of silicon fertilization on crop yield quantity and quality—A literature review in Europe. Plants 7:54 42. Mo Z, Lei S, Ashraf U, Khan I, Li Y, Pan S, Duan M, Tian H, Tang X (2017) Silicon fertilization modulates 2-acetyl-1-pyrro-line content, yield formation and grain quality of aromatic rice. J Cereal Sci 75:17–24 43. Solanki P, Bhargava A, Chhipa H, Jain N, Panwar J (2015) In: Mahendra R, Caue R, Luiz M (eds) Nano-fertilizers and their smart delivery system, Springer International Publishing Switzerland 44. Meena V, Dotaniya M, Coumar V, Rajendiran S, Kundu S, Rao AS (2014) A case for silicon fertilization to improve crop yields in tropical soils. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sci-ences, India Section B: Biol Sci 84:505–518 Silicon1 3 45. Etesami H, Jeong BR, Rizwan M (2020) In: Rupesh D, Durgesh K. Tripathi, Gea G (eds), Metalloids in Plants: Advances and Future Prospects, John Wiley & Sons Ltd. 46. Yeshe A, Gourkhede P, Vaidya P (2022) Chapter-5 Role and Application of Silicon in Agriculture. Current Res Soil Fert: 63 47. Sheng XF, Zhao F, He LY, Qiu G, Chen L (2008) Isolation and characterization of silicate mineral-solubilizing Bacillus glo-bisporus Q12 from the surfaces of weathered feldspar. Canad J Microbiol 54:1064–1068 48. Puppe D, Höhn A, Kaczorek D, Wanner M, Wehrhan M, Sommer M (2017) How big is the influence of biogenic silicon pools on short-term changes in water-soluble silicon in soils? Implications from a study of a 10-year-old soil–plant system. Biogeosci 14:5239–5252 49. Puppe D (2020) Review on protozoic silica and its role in silicon cycling. Geoderma 365:114224 50. Wu C, Zhang L, Mao L, Zhu L, Zhang Y, Jiang H, Zheng Y, Liu X (2022) Efficiency of four extraction methods to assess the bioavailability of oxyfluorfen to earthworms in soil amended with fresh and aged biochar. Agriculture 12:765 51. Farmer V, Lumsdon D (1994) An assessment of complex for -mation between aluminium and silicic acid in acidic solutions. Geochim Cosmochim 58:3331–3334 52. Jurkić LM, Cepanec I, Pavelić SK, Pavelić K (2013) Bio-logical and therapeutic effects of ortho-silicic acid and some ortho-silicic acid-releasing compounds: New perspectives for therapy. Nutr Metab 10:1–12 53. Bechtold MF, Vest RD, Plambeck L Jr (1968) Silicic acid from tetraethyl silicate hydrolysis. Polymerization and properties. J Ameri Chemi Soci 90:4590–4598 54. Swedlund PJ, Miskelly GM, McQuillan AJ (2010) Silicic acid adsorption and oligomerization at the ferrihydrite− water interface: Interpretation of ATR-IR spectra based on a model surface structure. Langmuir 26:3394–3401 55. Coradin T, Lopez PJ (2003) Biogenic silica patterning: simple chemistry or subtle biology? Chem Bio Chem 4:251–259 56. Ke Y, Stroeve P (2005) Polymer-layered silicate and silica nanocomposites. (Elsevier). 57. Cornelis JT, Delvaux B (2016) Soil processes drive the biologi-cal silicon feedback loop. Funct Ecol 30:1298–1310 58. Vandevenne F, Barão L, Ronchi B, Govers G, Meire P, Kelly E, Struyf E (2015) Silicon pools in human impacted soils of temperate zones. Global Biogeochem Cycles 29:1439–1450 59. Haynes RJ (2019) What effect does liming have on silicon availability in agricultural soils? Geoderma 337:375–383 60. Sommer M, Kaczorek D, Kuzyakov Y, Breuer J (2006) Silicon pools and fluxes in soils and landscapes—a review. J Plant Nutri Soil Sci 169:310–329 61. White AF, Vivit DV, Schulz MS, Bullen TD, Evett RR, Aagar -wal J (2012) Biogenic and pedogenic controls on Si distribu-tions and cycling in grasslands of the Santa Cruz soil chron-osequence, California. Geochim Cosmochim 94:72–94 62. Creevy KE, Austad SN, Hoffman JM, O’Neill DG, Promislow DE (2016) The companion dog as a model for the longevity dividend. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med 6:a026633 63. Tubaña BS, Heckman JR (2015) In: Fabrício AR, Lawrence ED (eds) Silicon in soils and plants, Springer International Publishing Switzerland 64. Laruelle GG et al. (2009) Anthropogenic perturbations of the silicon cycle at the global scale: Key role of the land ‐ocean transition. Global Biogeochem Cycles 23 65. Brindavathy R (2022) In: Aydin B, Mostafa S (eds) Mineral Formation by Microorganisms, Springer, Cham 66. Fomina M, Skorochod I (2020) Microbial interaction with clay minerals and its environmental and biotechnological implica-tions. Minerals 10:861 67. Li GL, Zhou CH, Fiore S, Yu WH (2019) Interactions between microorganisms and clay minerals: New insights and broader applications. Appl Clay Sci 177:91–113 68. Etesami H, Jeong BR (2021) Contribution of arbuscular mycor -rhizal fungi, phosphate–solubilizing bacteria, and silicon to P uptake by plant: a review. Front Plant Sci 12:1355 69. Thies JE, Grossman JM (2006) In: Norman UF, Andrew SB Erick F Hans H Olivier H Mark L Cheryl P Jules P Pedro S Nteranya S Janice T(eds) Biological approaches to sustainable soil systems. CRC Press, Boca Raton 70. Patrick S, Holding A (1985) The effect of bacteria on the solubilization of silica in diatom frustules. J Appl Bacteriol 59:7–16 71. Sheng M, Tang M, Chen H, Yang B, Zhang F, Huang Y (2008) Influence of arbuscular mycorrhizae on photosynthesis and water status of maize plants under salt stress. Mycorrhiza 18:287–296 72. Bist V, Niranjan A, Ranjan M, Lehri A, Seem K, Srivastava S (2020) Silicon-solubilizing media and its implication for char -acterization of bacteria to mitigate biotic stress. Front plant sci 11:28 73. Driks A (2002) Maximum shields: the assembly and function of the bacterial spore coat. Trends Microb 10:251–254 74. Liu W, Xu X, Wu X, Yang Q, Luo Y, Christie P (2006) Decom-position of silicate minerals by Bacillus mucilaginosus in liquid culture. Environ Geochem Health 28:133–140 75. Sumitha S et al (2018) Phyto-mediated photo catalysed green synthesis of silver nanoparticles using Durio zibethinus seed extract: antimicrobial and cytotoxic activity and photocatalytic applications. Molecules 23:3311 76. Shahbazi Y, Moosavy M-H (2019) Physico-mechanical and anti-microbial properties of quince seed mucilage supplemented with titanium dioxide and silicon oxide nanoparticles. J Nanomed Res 4:157–163 77. Whitehead KA, Colligon J, Verran J (2005) Retention of micro-bial cells in substratum surface features of micrometer and sub-micrometer dimensions. Colloids Surf, B 41:129–138 78. Dasgupta N, Arora SK, Ramphal R (2000) fleN, a gene that regu-lates flagellar number in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. J Bacteriol 182:357–364 79. Ghorbani-Choghamarani A, Azadi G, Tahmasbi B, Hadizadeh-Hafshejani M, Abdi Z (2014) Phosphorus Sulfur Silicon Relat Elem 189:433–439 80. Yin L, Wang S, Tanaka K, Fujihara S, Itai A, Den X, Zhang S (2016) Silicon-mediated changes in polyamines participate in silicon-induced salt tolerance in S orghum bicolor L. Plant Cell Environ 39:245–258 81. Zellner W Datnoff L (2020) In: Youssef R, Patrick du J Patrick B Stefania De P Giuseppe C (eds) Silicon as a biostimulant in agriculture, 1st edn. Burleigh Dodds Science Publishing 82. Bist N, Sircar A, Yadav K (2020) Holistic review of hybrid renewable energy in circular economy for valorization and man -agement. Environ Techn Innov 20:101054 83. Dhiman P et al (2021) Fascinating role of silicon to combat salin-ity stress in plants: An updated overview. Plant Physiol Biochem 162:110–123 84. Armbruster CE, Hodges SA, Smith SN, Alteri CJ, Mobley HL (2014) Arginine promotes Proteus mirabilis motility and fitness by contributing to conservation of the proton gradient and proton motive force. Microbiologyopen 3:630–641 85. Shivaraj S, Mandlik R, Bhat JA, Raturi G, Elbaum R, Alexander L, Tripathi DK, Deshmukh R, Sonah H (2022) Outstanding ques -tions on the beneficial role of silicon in crop plants. Plant Cell Physiol 63:4–18 86. Currie HA, Perry CC (2007) Silica in plants: biological, bio-chemical and chemical studies. Annals Bot 100:1383–1389Silicon 1 3 87. Neethirajan S, Gordon R, Wang L (2009) Potential of silica bod-ies (phytoliths) for nanotechnology. Tren Biotechnol 27:461–467 88. Dhiman G, Kumar V (2019) Seagull optimization algorithm: Theory and its applications for large-scale industrial engineering problems. Knowl Based Syst 165:169–196 89. Jensen DM, Morgan TR, Marcellin P, Pockros PJ, Reddy KR, Hadziyannis SJ, Ferenci P, Ackrill AM, Willems B (2006) Early identification of HCV genotype 1 patients responding to 24 weeks peginterferon α-2a (40 kd)/ribavirin therapy. Hepatology 43:954–960 90. Al-Karaki GN (2006) Nursery inoculation of tomato with arbus-cular mycorrhizal fungi and subsequent performance under irri-gation with saline water. Sci Hortic 109:1–7 91. Li H, Zhu Y, Hu Y, Han W, Gong H (2015) Beneficial effects of silicon in alleviating salinity stress of tomato seedlings grown under sand culture. Acta Physiol Plant 37:1–9 92. Hafez EM, Osman HS, El-Razek UAA, Elbagory M, Omara AE-D, Eid MA, Gowayed SM (2021) Foliar-applied potassium silicate coupled with plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria improves growth, physiology, nutrient uptake and productivity of faba bean (Vicia faba L.) irrigated with saline water in salt-affected soil. Plants 10: 894 93. Ribeiro IDA, Volpiano CG, Vargas LK, Granada CE, Lisboa BB, Passaglia LMP (2020) Use of mineral weathering bacteria to enhance nutrient availability in crops: a review. Front Plant Sci 11:590774 94. Saad M, Abo-Koura HA (2018) Improvement of sorghum (Sor -ghum bicolor l. Moench) growth and yield under drought stress by inoculation with Bacillus cereus and foliar application of potassium silicate. Environ Biodiv Soil Sec 2:205–221 95. Tubana BS, Babu T, Datnoff LE (2016) A review of silicon in soils and plants and its role in US agriculture: history and future perspectives. Soil Sci 181:393–411 96. Barker W, Welch S, Chu S, Banfield J (1998) Experimental observations of the effects of bacteria on aluminosilicate weath-ering. Am Min 83:1551–1563 97. Raturi G, Sharma Y, Rana V, Thakral V, Myaka B, Salvi P, Singh M, Dhar H, Deshmukh R (2021) Exploration of silicate solubiliz-ing bacteria for sustainable agriculture and silicon biogeochemi-cal cycle. Plant Physiol Biochem 166:827–838 98. Drever JI (1994) The effect of land plants on weathering rates of silicate minerals. Geochim Cosmochim 58:2325–2332 99. Lambers H, Mougel C, Jaillard B, Hinsinger P (2009) Plant-microbe-soil interactions in the rhizosphere: an evolutionary perspective. Plant Soil 321:83–115 100. Chen W, Luo L, He L-Y, Wang Q, Sheng X-F (2016) Distinct mineral weathering behaviors of the novel mineral-weathering strains Rhizobium yantingense H66 and Rhizobium etli CFN42. Appl Environ Microbiol 82:4090–4099 101. Wang RR, Wang Q, He LY, Qiu G, Sheng XF (2015) Isolation and the interaction between a mineral-weathering Rhizobium tropici Q34 and silicate minerals. World J Microbiol Biotechnol 31:747–753 102. Yanni YG, Rizk RY, Corich V, Squartini A, Ninke K, Philip-Hollingsworth S, Orgambide G, Bruijn FD, Stoltzfus J, Buckley D, Schmidt TM (1997) in Opportunities for biological nitrogen fixation in rice and other non-legumes. Natural endophytic asso-ciation between Rhizobium leguminosarum bv. trifolii and rice roots and assessment of its potential to promote rice growth. (Springer) pp. 99–114. 103. Banfield JF, Hamers RJ (1997) Processes at minerals and surfaces with relevance to microorganisms and prebiotic synthesis. Rev Mineral Geochem 35:81–122 104. Dove MT, Keen DA, Hannon AC, Swainson IP (1997) Direct measurement of the Si–O bond length and orientational disorder in the high-temperature phase of cristobalite. Phys Chem Miner 24:311–317 105. Zhu Y, Gong H (2014) Beneficial effects of silicon on salt and drought tolerance in plants. Agron Sustain Dev 34:455–472 106. Vayssiere J-L, Petit PX, Risler Y, Mignotte B (1994) Commit-ment to apoptosis is associated with changes in mitochondrial biogenesis and activity in cell lines conditionally immortalized with simian virus 40. Proc Natl Acad Sci 91:11752–11756 107. Yue H, Mo W, Li C, Zheng Y, Li H (2007) The salt stress relief and growth promotion effect of Rs-5 on cotton. Plant Soil 297:139–145 108. Etesami H (2018) Can interaction between silicon and plant growth promoting rhizobacteria benefit in alleviating abiotic and biotic stresses in crop plants? Agri Ecosys Environ 253:98–112 109. Raza T, Villalobos SdLS, Shehzad M, Imran S, da Silva DJH (2020) PGP Characterization of rhizobacteria associated with apple gourd (Praecitrullus fistulosus L.). Pak J Agri Res 33: 926 110. Torbeck RL, Saedi N (2016) Optimization of laser tattoo removal: optical clearing agents and multiple same-day treatments via the R0 and R20 methods. Curr Dermatol Reps 5:136–141 111. Meena V, Dotaniya M, Coumar V, Rajendiran S, Kundu S, Subba Rao A (2014) A case for silicon fertilization to improve crop yields in tropical soils. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, India Section B: Biol Sci 84:505–518 112. Singh T, Singh P, Singh A (2021) Silicon significance in crop production: Special consideration to rice: An overview. J Pharm Innov 10:223–229 113. Shin J et al (2019) Bioresorbable pressure sensors protected with thermally grown silicon dioxide for the monitoring of chronic diseases and healing processes. Nat Biomed Eng 3:37–46 114. Gondil VS, Asif M, Bhalla TC (2017) Optimization of physico-chemical parameters influencing the production of prodigiosin from Serratia nematodiphila RL2 and exploring its antibacterial activity. Biotech 7:1–8 115. Al-Kumaim NH, Alhazmi AK, Mohammed F, Gazem NA, Shab-bir MS, Fazea Y (2021) Exploring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on university students’ learning life: An integrated conceptual motivational model for sustainable and healthy online learning. Sustain 13:2546 116. Lee K-E, Adhikari A, Kang S-M, You Y-H, Joo G-J, Kim J-H, Kim S-J, Lee I-J (2019) Isolation and characterization of the high silicate and phosphate solubilizing novel strain Enterobacter ludwigii GAK2 that promotes growth in rice plants. Agron 9:144 117. Adhikari A, Lee K-E, Khan MA, Kang S-M, Adhikari B, Imran M, Jan R, Kim K-M, Lee I-J (2020) Effect of silicate and phos-phate solubilizing Rhizobacterium Enterobacter ludwigii GAK2 on Oryza sativa L. under cadmium stress. J Microbiol Biotechnol 30(1): 118–126 118. Mendoza-Arroyo GE, Chan-Bacab MJ, Aguila-Ramírez RN, Ortega-Morales BO, Canché Solís RE, Chab-Ruiz AO, Cob-Rivera KI, Dzib-Castillo B, Tun-Che RE, Camacho-Chab JC (2020) Inorganic phosphate solubilization by a novel isolated bacterial strain Enterobacter sp. ITCB-09 and its application potential as biofertilizer. Agri 10: 383 119. Liang Y, Wong J, Wei L (2005) Silicon-mediated enhancement of cadmium tolerance in maize (Zea mays L.) grown in cadmium contaminated soil. Chemo 58:475–483 120. Li Z, Delvaux B, Yans J, Dufour N, Houben D, Cornelis JT (2018) Phytolith-rich biochar increases cotton biomass and sili-con-mineralomass in a highly weathered soil. J Plant Nutri Soil Sci 181:537–546 121. Mehrabanjoubani P, Abdolzadeh A, Sadeghipour HR, Aghdasi M (2015) Silicon affects transcellular and apoplastic uptake of some nutrients in plants. Pedosphere 25:192–201 Silicon1 3 122. Sakurai G, Satake A, Yamaji N, Mitani-Ueno N, Yokozawa M, Feugier FG, Ma JF (2015) In silico simulation modeling reveals the importance of the Casparian strip for efficient silicon uptake in rice roots. Plant Cell Physiol 56:631–639 123. Liang Y, Shen Q, Shen Z, Ma T (1996) Effects of silicon on salin-ity tolerance of two barley cultivars. J Plant Nutri 19:173–183 124. Jarvis S (1987) The uptake and transport of silicon by perennial ryegrass and wheat. Plant Soil 97:429–437 125. Savant NK, Korndörfer GH, Datnoff LE, Snyder GH (1999) Sili-con nutrition and sugarcane production: a review. J Plant Nutri 22:1853–1903 126. Deshmukh R, Bélanger RR (2016) Molecular evolution of aqua-porins and silicon influx in plants. Funct Ecol 30:1277–1285 127. Guntzer F, Keller C, Meunier J-D (2012) Benefits of plant silicon for crops: a review. Agron Sustain Dev 32:201–213 128. Shen D (1997) Microbial diversity and application of microbial products for agricultural purposes in China. Agric Ecosyst Envi-ron 62:237–245 129. Kang S-M et al (2017) Isolation and characterization of a novel silicate-solubilizing bacterial strain Burkholderia eburnea CS4-2 that promotes growth of japonica rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Dongjin). Soil Sci Plant Nutri 63:233–241 130. Batista BD, Singh BK (2021) Realities and hopes in the appli-cation of microbial tools in agriculture. Microb Biotechnol 14:1258–1268 131. Garg KK, Jain D, Rajpurohit D, Kushwaha HS, Daima HK, Ste-phen BJ, Singh A, Mohanty SR (2021) Agricultural significance of silica nanoparticles synthesized from a silica solubilizing bac-teria. Comments Inorg Chem 1–17 132. Hendry KR, Marron AO, Vincent F, Conley DJ, Gehlen M, Ibar -balz FM, Quéguiner B, Bowler C (2018) Competition between silicifiers and non-silicifiers in the past and present ocean and its evolutionary impacts. Front Mar Sci 5:22 133. Rezakhani L, Motesharezadeh B, Tehrani MM, Etesami H, Mirseyed Hosseini H (2020) Effect of silicon and phosphate-solubilizing bacteria on improved phosphorus (P) uptake is not specific to insoluble P-fertilized sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) plants. J Plant Growth Regul 39:239–253 134. Bharti V, Dotaniya M, Shukla S, Yadav V (2017) In: Jay SS, Gamini S (eds) Agro-environmental sustainability, 1st edn. Springer, Cham 135. Sindhu V, Chatterjee R, Santhoshkumar G, Sinha T (2020) Enrichment of Organic Manures and Their Utilization in Veg-etable Crops. Curr J App Sci Technol 39:10–24 136. Pratheesh P, Lal S, Tuvikene R, Manickam S, Sudheer S (2020) In: Ali AR, Ajar NY, Neelam Y (eds) New and future develop-ments in microbial biotechnology and bioengineering. 1st edn. Elsevier, Amsterdam, Netherlands 137. Raza T, Khan MY, Nadeem SM, Imran S, Qureshi KN, Mushtaq MN, Sohaib M, Schmalenberger A, Eash NS (2021) Biological management of selected weeds of wheat through co-application of allelopathic rhizobacteria and sorghum extract. Biol Cont 164:104775 138. Rajput VD et al (2021) Effects of silicon and silicon-based nano-particles on rhizosphere microbiome, plant stress and growth. Biology 10:791 139. Raza T, Qureshi KN, Imran S, Eash NS, Bortone I (2021) Associated health risks from heavy metal-laden effluent into point drainage channels in Faisalabad. Pakistan Pak J Agri Res 34(3):487–494 140. Verma KK et al (2020) Interactive role of silicon and plant–rhizo-bacteria mitigating abiotic stresses: A new approach for sustain-able agriculture and climate change. Plants 9:1055 141. Kumar A, Patel JS, Bahadur I, and Meena VS (2016) In: Vijay SM, Bihari RM, Jay PV, Ram SM (eds). Potassium solubilizing microorganisms for sustainable agriculture. 1st edn. Springer, India 142. Kumawat N, Kumar R, Khandkar U, Yadav R, Saurabh K, Mishra J, Dotaniya M, and Hans H (2019) In: Bhoopander G, Ram P, Qiang-Sheng W, Ajit V (eds) Biofertilizers for sustainable agri-culture and environment. 1st edn. Springer, Cham 143. Shah AA, Yasin NA, Akram K, Ahmad A, Khan WU, Akram W, Akbar M (2021) Ameliorative role of Bacillus subtilis FBL-10 and silicon against lead induced stress in Solanum melongena. Plant Physiol Biochem 158:486–496 144. Paulraj P, Balakrishnan K, Rajendran RRMV, Alagappan B (2021) Investigation on recent research of mechanical proper -ties of natural fiber reinforced polymer (NFRP) materials. Mater Plast 58:100–118 145. Dollinger J, Schacht VJ, Gaus C, Grant S (2018) Effect of sur -factant application practices on the vertical transport potential of hydrophobic pesticides in agrosystems. Chemosphere 209:78–87 146. Zhou J, Sun Y, Xiao H, Ma Q, Si L, Ni L, Wu L (2021) Silicon uptake and translocation in low-silica rice mutants investigated by isotope fractionation. Agron J 113:2732–2741 147. Brindavathy R, Dhara N, Rajasundari K (2012) Biodissolution of silica by silicon bacteria in sugarcane rhizosphere. Res J Agr Sci 3:1042–1044 148. Chaiwong N, Rerkasem B, Pusadee T, Prom-u-thai C (2021) Silicon application improves caryopsis development and yield in rice. J Sci Food Agric 101:220–228 149. Bocharnikova E, Loginov S, Matychenkov V, Storozhenko P (2010) Silicon fertilizer efficiency Russ Agric Sci 36:446–448 150. Shamim M, Kumar M, Pal AK, Kumar RR, and Jha V (2019) In: Shamim M, Kumar M, Pal AK, Kumar RR, Jha V (eds) Biofertilizers and biopesticides in sustainable agricultur, 1st edn. Apple Academic Press 151. Van der Weijden CH, Middelburg JJ, Van Ganns P (1989) Early diagenetic silica precipitation, in relation to redox boundaries and bacterial metabolism, in late Cretaceous Chalk of the Maastrichtian type locality. Geol Mijnb 68: 263-270 152. Mattey M (1992) The production of organic acids. Crit Rev Biotechnol 12:87–132 153. Vandevivere P, Welch S, Ullman W, Kirchman DL (1994) Enhanced dissolution of silicate minerals by bacteria at near-neutral pH. Microb Ecol 27:241–251 154. Machado RMA, Serralheiro RP (2017) Soil salinity: effect on vegetable crop growth. Management practices to prevent and mitigate soil salinization. Sci Hortic 3: 30 155. Nanayakkara U, Uddin W, Datnoff L (2008) Application of silicon sources increases silicon accumulation in perennial ryegrass turf on two soil types. Plant Soil 303:83–94 156. Kalia A and Kaur H in Nanoscience for sustainable agriculture (2019). In: Ramesh N P, Nidhi C, Chittaranjan K (eds) Nano-biofertilizers, 1st edn. Springer, Chem 157. Kannan N, Raj SA (1998) Occurrence of silicate solubilizing bacteria in rice ecosystem. Madras Agri J 85:47–49 158. Shivaraj S, Mandlik R, Bhat JA, Raturi G, Elbaum R, Alexan-der L, Tripathi DK, Deshmukh R, Sonah H (2021) Outstanding questions on the beneficial role of silicon in crop plants. Plant Cell Physiol 63(1):4–18 159. Schwab F, Zhai G, Kern M, Turner A, Schnoor JL, Wiesner MR (2016) Barriers, pathways and processes for uptake, trans-location and accumulation of nanomaterials in plants–Critical review. Nanotoxicology 10:257–278 160. Li L, Luo Y, Li R, Zhou Q, Peijnenburg WJ, Yin N, Yang J, Tu C, Zhang Y (2020) Effective uptake of submicrometre plastics by crop plants via a crack-entry mode. Nat Sustain 3:929–937 161. Limmer MA, Wise P, Dykes GE, Seyfferth AL (2018) Sili-con decreases dimethylarsinic acid concentration in rice Silicon 1 3grain and mitigates straighthead disorder. Environ Sci Techn 52:4809–4816 162. Lovisolo C, Hartung W, Schubert A (2002) Whole-plant hydraulic conductance and root-to-shoot flow of abscisic acid are independently affected by water stress in grapevines. Funct Plant Biol 29:1349–1356 163. Marafon AC, Endres L (2013) Silicon: fertilization and nutri-tion in higher plants. Embrapa Tabuleiros Costeiros-Artigo em periódico indexado (ALICE). Rev Cienc Agrar 56(4): 380–388 164. Mandlik R, Thakral V, Raturi G, Shinde S, Nikolić M, Trip-athi DK, Sonah H, Deshmukh R (2020) Significance of sil -icon uptake, transport, and deposition in plants. J Exp Bot 71:6703–6718 165. Motomura H, Fujii T, Suzuki M (2006) Silica deposition in abaxial epidermis before the opening of leaf blades of Pleio-blastus chino (Poaceae, Bambusoideae). Ann Bot 97:513–519 166. Kumar S, Elbaum R (2018) Interplay between silica deposition and viability during the life span of sorghum silica cells. New Phyto 217:1137–1145 167. Nassif N, Livage J (2011) From diatoms to silica-based biohy -brids. Chem Soci Rev 40:849–859 168. Zhou K-G et al (2018) Electrically controlled water permeation through graphene oxide membranes. Nature 559:236–240 169. Harley A, Gilkes R (2000) Factors influencing the release of plant nutrient elements from silicate rock powders: a geochemi-cal overview. Nutr Cycl Agroecosystems 56:11–36 170. Manning DA (2010) Mineral sources of potassium for plant nutri -tion. A review Agron Sustain Dev 30:281–294 171. Anda M, Shamshuddin J, Fauziah C (2015) Improving chemical properties of a highly weathered soil using finely ground basalt rocks. CATENA 124:147–161 172. Ryan PR, Delhaize E, Jones DL (2001) Function and mechanism of organic anion exudation from plant roots. Ann Rev Plant Biol 52:527 173. Aoki M, Fujii K, Kitayama K (2012) Environmental control of root exudation of low-molecular weight organic acids in tropical rainforests. Ecosyst 15:1194–1203 174. Vives-Peris V, de Ollas C, Gómez-Cadenas A (2020) Pérez-Cle-mente RMJPcr. Root exudates: from plant to rhizosphere and beyond. Plant Cell Reprt 39:3–17 175. Richter DdB, Oh N-H, Fimmen R, and Jackson J (2007) In: Zoe GC, Julie LW (eds) The rhizosphere, Elsevier, Academic Press 176. Bennett P, Rogers J, Choi W, Hiebert F (2001) Silicates, silicate weathering, and microbial ecology. Geomicrobiol J 18:3–19 177. Samuels T, Bryce C, Landenmark H, Marie‐ Loudon C, Nichol-son N, Stevens AH, Cockell C (2020) Microbial weathering of minerals and rocks in natural environments. Biogeochemical cycles: Environ Ecol Stat 59–79 178. Ranalli G, Zanardini E, and Sorlini C (2009) Biodeterioration–including cultural heritage. 179. Zhu Y, Duan G, Chen B, Peng X, Chen Z, Sun G (2014) Mineral weathering and element cycling in soil-microorganism-plant sys-tem. Sci China Earth Sci 57:888–896 180. Smith KS, Ferry JG (2000) Prokaryotic carbonic anhydrases. FEMS Microbiol Rev 24:335–366 181. Xiao L, Hao J, Wang W, Lian B, Shang G, Yang Y, Liu C, Wang S (2014) The up-regulation of carbonic anhydrase genes of Bacillus mucilaginosus under soluble Ca2+ deficiency and the heterologously expressed enzyme promotes calcite dissolution. Geomicrobiol J 31:632–641 182. Adeleke R, Nwangburuka C, Oboirien B (2017) Origins, roles and fate of organic acids in soils: A review. S Afr J Bot 108:393–406 183. Torres MA, West AJ, Nealson K (2014) Microbial acceleration of olivine dissolution via siderophore production. Procedia Environ Sci 10:118–122 184. Uroz S, Calvaruso C, Turpault M-P, Frey-Klett P (2009) Mineral weathering by bacteria: ecology, actors and mechanisms. Trends Microbiol 17:378–387 185. Zavarzina DG et al (2016) Oxidative biotransformation of biotite and glauconite by alkaliphilic anaerobes: the effect of Fe oxida-tion on the weathering of phyllosilicates. Chem Geol 439:98–109 186. Chandrakala C, Voleti S, Bandeppa S, Sunil Kumar N, Latha P (2019) Silicate solubilization and plant growth promoting poten-tial of Rhizobium sp. isolated from rice rhizosphere. SILICON 11:2895–2906 187. Hu L, Xia M, Lin X, Xu C, Li W, Wang J, Zeng R, Song Y (2018) Earthworm gut bacteria increase silicon bioavailability and acquisition by maize. Soil Biol Biochem 125:215–221 188. Sauer D, Saccone L, Conley DJ, Herrmann L, Sommer M (2006) Review of methodologies for extracting plant-available and amorphous Si from soils and aquatic sediments. Biogeochem 80:89–108 189. Belton DJ, Deschaume O, Perry CC (2012) An overview of the fundamentals of the chemistry of silica with relevance to biosilicification and technological advances. The FEBS J 279:1710–1720 190. Perry CC, Keeling-Tucker T (1998) Aspects of the bioinorganic chemistry of silicon in conjunction with the biometals calcium, iron and aluminium. J Inorg Biochem 69:181–191 191. Wonisch H, Gérard F, Dietzel M, Jaffrain J, Nestroy O, Boudot J-P (2008) Occurrence of polymerized silicic acid and aluminum species in two forest soil solutions with different acidity. Geo-derma 144:435–445 192. Cornelis J-T, Delvaux B, Cardinal D, André L, Ranger J, Opfer -gelt S (2010) Tracing mechanisms controlling the release of dis-solved silicon in forest soil solutions using Si isotopes and Ge/Si ratios. Geochim Cosmochim Acta 74:3913–3924 193. Matichenkov V and Bocharnikova E in Studies in plant science (2001). The relationship between silicon and soil physical and chemical properties. (Elsevier) pp. 209–219. 194. Lucas Y and Chauvel A (1992) Soil formation in tropically weathered terrains. Regolith exploration geochemistry in tropi-cal and subtropical terrains.. 57–77 195. Savant NK, Datnoff LE, Snyder GH (1997) Depletion of plant-available silicon in soils: A possible cause of declining rice yields. Commun Soil Sci Plant Anal 28:1245–1252 196. El-Tayeb M (2005) Response of barley grains to the interac-tive e. ect of salinity and salicylic acid. Plant Growth Regu 45:215–224 197. Gunes A, Inal A, Bagci E, Coban S, Sahin O (2007) Silicon increases boron tolerance and reduces oxidative damage of wheat grown in soil with excess boron. Biol Plant 51:571–574 198. Roboredo MC, Pessoa AA (2013) A branch-and-cut algorithm for the discrete (r∣ p)-centroid problem. Eur J Oper Res 224:101–109 199. Rains D, Epstein E, Zasoski R, Aslam M (2006) Active silicon uptake by wheat. Plant Soil 280:223–228 200. Meena H, Meena RS (2017) Assessment of sowing environments and bio-regulators as adaptation choice for clusterbean produc-tivity in response to current climatic scenario. Bangladesh J Bot 46:241–244 201. Mali M, Aery CN (2008) Silicon effects on nodule growth, dry-matter production, and mineral nutrition of cowpea (Vigna unguiculata). J Plant Nutrit Soil Sci 171:835–840 202. Desplanques V, Cary L, Mouret J-C, Trolard F, Bourrie G, Grauby O, Meunier J-D (2006) Silicon transfers in a rice field in Camargue (France). J Geochem Explor 88:190–193 203. Pei Z, Ming D, Liu D, Wan G, Geng X, Gong H, Zhou W (2010) Silicon improves the tolerance to water-deficit stress induced by polyethylene glycol in wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) seedlings. J Plant Growth Reg 29:106–115 Silicon1 3 204. Ma J, Takahashi E (1990) Effect of silicon on the growth and phosphorus uptake of rice. Plant soil 126:115–119 205. Alzahrani Y, Kuşvuran A, Alharby HF, Kuşvuran S, Rady MM (2018) The defensive role of silicon in wheat against stress condi-tions induced by drought, salinity or cadmium. Ecotoxicol Envi-ron Saf 154:187–196 206. Schaller J, Brackhage C, Bäucker E, Dudel EG (2013) UV-screening of grasses by plant silica layer? J Biosci 38:413–416 207. Rizwan M, Ali S, Ibrahim M, Farid M, Adrees M, Bharwana SA, Zia-ur-Rehman M, Qayyum MF, Abbas F (2015) Mechanisms of silicon-mediated alleviation of drought and salt stress in plants: a review. Environ Sci Pollu Res 22:15416–15431 208. Zhu Z, Wei G, Li J, Qian Q, Yu J (2004) Silicon alleviates salt stress and increases antioxidant enzymes activity in leaves of salt-stressed cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). Plant Sci 167:527–533 209. Massey FP, Smith MJ, Lambin X, Hartley SE (2008) Are silica defences in grasses driving vole population cycles? Bioly Lett 4:419–422 210. Massey FP, Hartley SE (2009) Physical defences wear you down: progressive and irreversible impacts of silica on insect herbi-vores. J Animal Ecol 78:281–291 211. Ning D, Song A, Fan F, Li Z, Liang Y (2014) Effects of slag-based silicon fertilizer on rice growth and brown-spot resistance. Plosone 9:e102681 212. Schaller J, Puppe D, Kaczorek D, Ellerbrock R, Sommer M (2021) Silicon Cycling in Soils Revisited Plants 10(2):295 213. Katz O, Puppe D, Kaczorek D, Prakash NB, Schaller J (2021) Silicon in the soil-plant continuum: intricate feedback mecha-nisms within ecosystems. Plants 10(4):652 214. Pico LBO, Zhang C, Vyn TJ (2021) The central role of ear nitro-gen uptake in maize endosperm cell and kernel weight determi-nation during the lag period. Field Crops Res 273:108285 215. Cassman KG, Dobermann A (2022) Nitrogen and the future of agriculture: 20 years on. Ambio 51:17–24 216. Li C, Wang X, Guo Z, Huang N, Hou S, He G, Batchelor WD, Siddique KH, Wang Z, Zhang D (2022) Optimizing nitrogen fertilizer inputs and plant populations for greener wheat produc-tion with high yields and high efficiency in dryland areas. Field Crops Res 276:108374 217. Nayak HS et al (2022) Rice yield gaps and nitrogen-use efficiency in the Northwestern Indo-Gangetic Plains of India: Evidence based insights from heterogeneous farmers’ practices. Field Crops Res 275:108328 218. Burke WJ, Jayne TS, Snapp SS (2022) Nitrogen efficiency by soil quality and management regimes on Malawi farms: Can fertilizer use remain profitable? World Develop 152:105792 219. Min J, Sun H, Kronzucker HJ, Wang Y, Shi W (2021) Compre-hensive assessment of the effects of nitrification inhibitor appli-cation on reactive nitrogen loss in intensive vegetable production systems. Agri Ecosys Environ 307:107227 220. Gou T, Yang L, Hu W, Chen X, Zhu Y, Guo J, Gong H (2020) Silicon improves the growth of cucumber under excess nitrate stress by enhancing nitrogen assimilation and chlorophyll syn-thesis. Plant Physiol Bioch 152:53–61 221. Schaller J, Brackhage C, Gessner M, Bäuker E, Gert Dudel E (2012) Silicon supply modifies C: N: P stoichiometry and growth of Phragmites australis. Plant Biol 14:392–396 222. Barreto RF, Júnior AAS, Maggio MA, de Mello PR (2017) Sili-con alleviates ammonium toxicity in cauliflower and in broccoli. Scient Hort 225:743–750 223. Cooke J, Leishman MR (2016) Consistent alleviation of abi-otic stress with silicon addition: a meta-analysis. Func Ecol 30:1340–1357 224. Pascual MB, Echevarria V, Gonzalo MJ, Hernández-Apaolaza L (2016) Silicon addition to soybean (Glycine max L.) plants alleviate zinc deficiency. Plant Physiol Biochem 108:132–138 225. Deus ACF, de Mello PR, de Cássia Félix Alvarez R, de Oliveira RLL, Felisberto G, (2020) Role of silicon and salicylic acid in the mitigation of nitrogen deficiency stress in rice plants. SILI-CON 12:997–1005 226. Mabagala F, Geng Y, Cao G, Wang L, Wang M, Zhang M (2020) Effect of silicon on crop yield, and nitrogen use efficiency applied under straw return treatments. Appl Ecol Environ Res 18:5577–5590 227. Laîné P, Haddad C, Arkoun M, Yvin J-C, Etienne P (2019) Sili-con promotes agronomic performance in Brassica napus culti-vated under field conditions with two nitrogen fertilizer inputs. Plants 8:137 228. Neu S, Schaller J, Dudel EG (2017) Silicon availability modifies nutrient use efficiency and content, C: N: P stoichiometry, and productivity of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). Sci Rep 7:1–8 229. Pál M, Kovács V, Szalai G, Soós V, Ma X, Liu H, Mei H, Janda T (2014) Salicylic acid and abiotic stress responses in rice. J Agron Crop Sci 200:1–11 230. Detmann KC, Araújo WL, Martins SC, Sanglard LM, Reis JV, Detmann E, Rodrigues FÁ, Nunes-Nesi A, Fernie AR, DaMatta FM (2012) Silicon nutrition increases grain yield, which, in turn, exerts a feed-forward stimulation of photosynthetic rates via enhanced mesophyll conductance and alters primary metabo-lism in rice. New Phytol 196:752–762 231. Soratto RP, Fernandes AM, Pilon C, Souza MR (2019) Phospho-rus and silicon effects on growth, yield, and phosphorus forms in potato plants. J Plant Nutr 42:218–233 232. Owino-Gerroh C, Gascho G (2005) Effect of silicon on low pH soil phosphorus sorption and on uptake and growth of maize. Commun Soil Sci Plant Anal 35:2369–2378 233. Zhang Y, Liang Y, Zhao X, Jin X, Hou L, Shi Y, Ahammed GJ (2019) Silicon compensates phosphorus deficit-induced growth inhibition by improving photosynthetic capacity, antioxidant potential, and nutrient homeostasis in tomato. Agron 9:733 234. Hu AY, Xu SN, Qin DN, Li W, Zhao XQ (2020) Role of silicon in mediating phosphorus imbalance in plants. Plants 10:51 235. Schaller J, Puppe D, Kaczorek D, Ellerbrock R, Sommer M (2021) Silicon cycling in soils revisited. Plants 10: 295 236. Dunne EJ and Reddy K (2005) Phosphorus biogeochemistry of wetlands in agricultural watersheds. Nutrient management in agricultural watersheds: a wetland solution. Wageningen, The Netherlands: Wageningen Academic Publishers: 105–119 237. Xia Z, He Y, Yu L, Lv R, Korpelainen H, Li C (2020) Sex-specific strategies of phosphorus (P) acquisition in Populus cathayana as affected by soil P availability and distribution. New Phytol 225:782–792 238. Pavlovic J, Kostic L, Bosnic P, Kirkby EA, Nikolic M (2021) Interactions of silicon with essential and beneficial elements in plants. Front Plant Sci 12:1224 239. Rajan S (1975) Phosphate adsorption and the displacement of structural silicon in an allophane clay. J Soil Sci 26:250–256 240. Knorr K-H, Lischeid G, Blodau C (2009) Dynamics of redox pro-cesses in a minerotrophic fen exposed to a water table manipula-tion. Geoderma 153:379–392 241. Schaller J, Faucherre S, Joss H, Obst M, Goeckede M, Planer-Friedrich B, Peiffer S, Gilfedder B, Elberling B (2019) Silicon increases the phosphorus availability of Arctic soils. Sci Rep 9:1–11 242. Sigg L, Stumm W (1981) The interaction of anions and weak acids with the hydrous goethite (α-FeOOH) surface. Colloids Surf 2:101–117 243. Reithmaier G-MS, Knorr K-H, Arnhold S, Planer-Friedrich B, Schaller J (2017) Enhanced silicon availability leads to increased methane production, nutrient and toxicant mobility in peatlands. Sci Rep 7:1–8Silicon 1 3 244. Yang X, Post WM, Thornton PE, Jain A (2013) The distribution of soil phosphorus for global biogeochemical modeling. Biogeo-sci 10:2525–2537 245. Dong Q, Fang J, Huang F, Cai K (2019) Silicon amendment reduces soil Cd availability and Cd uptake of two Pennisetum species. Int J Environ Res Public Health 16:1624 246. o Di Nasso NN, Angelini L, Bonari E, (2010) Influence of fer -tilisation and harvest time on fuel quality of giant reed (Arundo donax L.) in central Italy. Eur J Agron 32:219–227 247. Hu AY, Che J, Shao JF, Yokosho K, Zhao XQ, Shen RF, Ma JF (2018) Silicon accumulated in the shoots results in down-regu-lation of phosphorus transporter gene expression and decrease of phosphorus uptake in rice. Plant Soil 423:317–325 248. Guo W, Hou Y-L, Wang S-G, Zhu Y-G (2005) Effect of silicate on the growth and arsenate uptake by rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed -lings in solution culture. Plant Soil 272:173–181 249. Kostic L, Nikolic N, Bosnic D, Samardzic J, Nikolic M (2017) Silicon increases phosphorus (P) uptake by wheat under low P acid soil conditions. Plant Soil 419:447–455 250. Chen J, Zhang N-N, Pan Q, Lin X-Y, Shangguan Z, Zhang J-H, Wei G-H (2020) Hydrogen sulphide alleviates iron deficiency by promoting iron availability and plant hormone levels in Glycine max seedlings. BMC Plant Bol 20:1–22 251. Dhankhar R, Gupta S, Gulati P (2022) Insights on plant–microbe interactions in soil in relation to iron dynamics. Vegetos: 1–18 252. Xing Y (2020), Universitäts-und Landesbibliothek Bonn. 253. Chowdhury NR, Das R, Joardar M, Ghosh S, Bhowmick S, Roychowdhury T (2018) Arsenic accumulation in paddy plants at different phases of pre-monsoon cultivation. Chemosphere 210:987–997 254. Carrasco-Gil S, Rodríguez-Menéndez S, Fernández B, Pereiro R, de la Fuente V, Hernandez-Apaolaza L (2018) Silicon induced Fe deficiency affects Fe, Mn, Cu and Zn distribution in rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth in calcareous conditions. Plant Physiol Bio-chem 125:153–163 255. Martín-Esquinas A, Hernández-Apaolaza L (2021) Rice responses to silicon addition at different Fe status and growth pH. Evaluation of ploidy changes. Plant Physiol Biochem 163:296–307 256. Dauqan EM, Abdullah A (2017) Medicinal and functional val-ues of thyme (Thymus vulgaris L.) herb. J Applied Biol Biotech 5:017–022 257. Yang Z-X, Yu S-Z, Lin Y-C, Zhang W-J, Wang Y, Wang R-G, Xu S-X, Yang T-Z, Xue G (2020) Activation of potassium released from soil by root-secreted organic acids in different varieties of tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum). Funct Plant Biol 47:318–326 258. Ahanger MA, Tomar NS, Tittal M, Argal S, Agarwal R (2017) Plant growth under water/salt stress: ROS production; antioxi-dants and significance of added potassium under such conditions. Physiold Molecul Biol Plants 23:731–744 259. Manishankar P, Wang N, Köster P, Alatar AA, Kudla J (2018) Calcium signaling during salt stress and in the regulation of ion homeostasis. J Exp Bot 69:4215–4226 260. Garg N, Bhandari P (2016) Silicon nutrition and mycorrhizal inoculations improve growth, nutrient status, K+/Na+ ratio and yield of Cicer arietinum L. genotypes under salinity stress. Plant Growth Reg 78:371–387 261. Thorne SJ, Hartley SE, Maathuis FJ (2020) Is silicon a panacea for alleviating drought and salt stress in crops? Front Plant Sci 11:1221 262. Yan G, Fan X, Zheng W, Gao Z, Yin C, Li T, Liang Y (2021) Silicon alleviates salt stress-induced potassium deficiency by promoting potassium uptake and translocation in rice (Oryza sativa L.). J Plant Physiol 258: 153379 263. Hajiboland R, Cherghvareh L, Dashtebani F (2017) Effect of silicon supplementation on wheat plants under salt stress. J Plant Process Fun 5 264. Adams WW, Stewart JJ, Polutchko SK, Demmig-Adams B (2018). In The Leaf: A Platform for Performing Photosynthe-sis. Leaf vasculature and the upper limit of photosynthesis. (Springer) pp. 27–54. 265. Daras G, Rigas S, Tsitsekian D, Iacovides TA, Hatzopoulos P (2015) Potassium transporter TRH1 subunits assemble regulating root-hair elongation autonomously from the cell fate determina-tion pathway. Plant Sci 231:131–137 266. Véry A-A, Nieves-Cordones M, Daly M, Khan I, Fizames C, Sentenac H (2014) Molecular biology of K+ transport across the plant cell membrane: what do we learn from comparison between plant species? J Plant Physiol 171:748–769 267. Barreto RF, Maier BR, de Mello PR, de Morais TCB, Felisberto G (2022) Silicon attenuates potassium and sulfur deficiency by increasing nutrient use efficiency in basil plants. Sci Hortic 291:110616 268. Araújo WBS, Teixeira GCM, de Mello PR, Rocha AMS (2022) Silicon mitigates nutritional stress of nitrogen, phosphorus, and calcium deficiency in two forages plants. Sci Rep 12:1–11 269. dos Santos Sarah MM, de Mello PR, de Souza Júnior JP, Teixeira GCM, dos Santos Duarte JC, de Medeiros RLS (2021) Silicon supplied via foliar application and root to attenuate potassium deficiency in common bean plants. Sci Rep 11:1–13 270. Silva JLFd and Prado RdM (2021) Elucidating the action mecha-nisms of silicon in the mitigation of phosphorus deficiency and enhancement of its response in sorghum plants. J Plant Nut 44: 2572-2582 271. Sales AC, Campos CNS, de Souza Junior JP, da Silva DL, Oliveira KS, de Mello PR, Teodoro LPR, Teodoro PE (2021) Silicon mitigates nutritional stress in quinoa (Chenopodium qui-noa Willd.). Sci Rep 11:1–16 272. Syed A, Raza T, Bhatti TT, Eash NS (2022) Climate Impacts on the agricultural sector of Pakistan: Risks and solutions. Environ Challenges 6:100433 273. Khan KS. Qadir MF, Ahmad A, Naveed M, Raza T, Ditta A (2022). Efficacy of Different Endophytic Bacterial Strains in Enhancing Growth, Yield, and Physiological and Biochemical Attributes of Linum usitatissimum L. J Soil Sci Plant Nutr 1–12 274. Kim YH, Khan AL, Kim DH. Lee SY, Kim KM, Waqas, M, Jung HY, Shin JH, Kim JG, Lee, IJ (2014). Silicon mitigates heavy metal stress by regulating P-type heavy metal ATPases, Oryza sativa low silicon genes, and endogenous phytohormones. BMC Plant Biol 14: 1–13. 275. Schaller J, Puppe D (2021) Heat improves silicon availability in mineral soils. Geoderma 386:114909 276. Guntzer F, Keller C, Poulton PR, McGrath SP, Meunier JD (2012) Long-Term removal of wheat straw decreases soil amor -phous silica at Broadbalk, Rothamsted. Plant Soil 352:173–184 277. Klotzbüche T, Treptow C, Kaiser K, Klotzbücher A, Mikutta R (2020) Sorption competition with natural organic matter as mechanism controlling silicon mobility in soil. Sci Rep 10:11225Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.