ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, andSystematicsLife in Dry Soils: Effects ofDrought on Soil MicrobialCommunities and ProcessesJoshua P. SchimelDepartment of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology, University of California,Santa Barbara, California 93108, USA; email: schimel@lifesci.ucsb.eduAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018. 49:409–32First published as a Review in Advance onAugust 16, 2018The Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, andSystematics is online at ecolsys.annualreviews.orghttps://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-110617-062614Copyright c/circlecopyrt2018 by Annual Reviews.All rights reservedKeywordssoil, drought, rewetting, soil microbiologyAbstractThroughout Earth’s history, drought has been a common crisis in terres-trial ecosystems; in human societies, it can cause famine, one of the FourHorsemen of the apocalypse. As the global hydrological cycle intensiﬁeswith global warming, deeper droughts and rewetting will alter, and possi-bly transform, ecosystems. Soil communities, however, seem more tolerantthan plants or animals are to water stress—the main effects, in fact, on soilprocesses appear to be limited diffusion and the limited supply of resourcesto soil organisms. Thus, the rains that end a drought not only release soilmicrobes from stress but also create a resource pulse that fuels soil micro-bial activity. It remains unclear whether the effects of drought on soil pro-cesses result from drying or rewetting. It is also unclear whether the ﬂushof activity on rewetting is driven by microbial growth or by the physical/chemical processes that mobilize organic matter. In this review, I discusshow soil water, and the lack of it, regulates microbial life and biogeochem-ical processes. I ﬁrst focus on organismal-level responses and then considerhow these inﬂuence whole-soil organic matter dynamics. A ﬁnal focus is onhow to incorporate these effects into Earth System models that can effectivelycapture dry–wet cycling.409Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Water is the critical resource for life, yet drought is pervasive in terrestrial ecosystems. Mostecosystems experience at least occasional drought, and droughts appear to be intensifying withclimate warming (Sherwood & Fu 2014). Arid zones are expanding (Seager et al. 2018). Droughtstresses all organisms, potentially killing them or driving evolution of drought-adapted life historystrategies. In plants, these include deep roots, annual growth, and the production of small, waxyleaves (Kooyers 2015). Thus, water availability (or the lack of it) structures plant communities,but it also regulates soil communities and their function. The magnitude and extent of dry periodsvary, from short, mild dry-downs to the decades-long drought of the Atacama desert; droughtslasting weeks to months are common in many regions. Drought affects soil processes in severalways, notably by directly stressing soil organisms—soil microorganisms rapidly equilibrate to theosmotic conditions (water potential) of their immediate environment—and to remain hydratedwhen the soil around them dries, they must accumulate solutes to retain water within their cells.But drought also affects soil processes indirectly, by altering the supply of substrates to microbesvia dissolution, diffusion, and transport.But, of course, droughts end. The ﬁrst rains release microbes from stress, redissolve materials,and drive mass ﬂow of resources through the soil. In fact, it remains unclear whether the greatereffects of drought on soil processes result from physiological stress from drying or from rewetting.So, which is the real disturbance: drought or rewetting?Drying and wetting are always coupled, and so drought might better be considered an integratedtwo-part disturbance: a disturbance that combines physiological, physical, and chemical pertur-bations to the soil system. As Earth’s climate changes, capturing the effects of varying dry–wetcycles in Earth System models will be important to effectively describe and predict biogeochemicalprocesses—but to do that, we need to know the key processes to incorporate.In this review, I discuss how dry conditions affect microbial life and biogeochemical processesin soil, exploring how the different effects manifest. I start with the ways in which water (or thelack of it) inﬂuences the soil environment and then evaluate these inﬂuences on microbial systems,starting at the organismal level and then following the cascading effects up to the whole soil. Ialso discuss how researchers have incorporated these effects into simulation models to describesoil processes over yet larger scales and longer periods.1. DRY SOILS AS A HABITAT FOR SOIL MICROBESWater affects microbial dynamics in three fundamental ways: as resource, as solvent, and as trans-port medium (Tecon & Or 2017). Each is important in regulating microbial function. Workingin concert, they produce complex patterns of microbial and biogeochemical responses (Moyanoet al. 2013) ( Figure 1 ).1.1. Water as Resource: Water PotentialThe availability of water as a resource is a function of its energy state—its water potential. Themore energy available, the more easily accessible the resource. Water potential (notated by thesymbol /Psi1and expressed in units of pressure, pascals) (Papendick & Campbell 1981) is thereforefundamental in understanding soil moisture relations. Soil water potential is controlled primarilyby the physical soil matrix and by solutes. Water interacts with solids through capillarity andadhesion to particle surfaces—these drive matric potential ( /Psi1m); soils with more reactive surfacearea hold water more tightly. Dissolved materials stabilize water molecules, regulating the water’ssolute (osmotic) potential ( /Psi1s)./Psi1sa n d/Psi1m are always negative in soil because they are measuredagainst a reference of pure water (deﬁned as having /Psi1sa n d /Psi1m of 0). The other components410 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Microbial cellAdsorbedsubstratePorewaterabcHeterotrophicrespirationVolumetric soil moisture, θ–ψMetabolic costsPredationGas transportSolute transport–πabcSoilparticleSaturated Dry ConditionsFigure 1Moisture effects on soil microbial activity under conditions ranging from ( a)d r yt o( c) saturated. Blackrectangles represent microbial cells, and orange lines represent substrates adsorbed onto soil particles ( tanspheres ). (Bottom panel ) The relationship between soil respiration ( black line ) and moisture results frominteracting effects, including diffusion and physiological, biochemical, and ecological processes. ψindicatesthe soil water potential, and πis the cell osmotic potential that would allow maintaining a stable turgorpressure as ψdeclines. ψandπare have negative values; to plot them on a positive axis, they are plotted astheir negative values. Figure adapted from Moyano et al. (2013) with permission.of water potential are macroscale: Water has gravitational potential ( /Psi1g) that drives it to ﬂowdownhill (to lower /Psi1g); it can use that energy to erode hillsides and scour stream channels. Theﬁnal component of water potential is pressure ( /Psi1p)—water under pressure can ﬂy out of a hoseor spin a turbine.These components sum to the overall total water potential ( /Psi1w):/Psi1w=/Psi1s+/Psi1m+/Psi1g+/Psi1p.Water always ﬂows down a /Psi1w gradient. Thus, water ﬂows downhill because of the /Psi1gg r a d i e n t ;i nosmosis, water on the freshwater side of a membrane moves across because the solute potential onthe salty side is lower. The /Psi1w gradient drives water from soil through plants to the atmosphere.Even when we might consider the air dripping wet, the actual /Psi1w is remarkably low—at a humidityof 98%, /Psi1w is below −2 MPa. At 47% humidity, /Psi1wi s−100 MPa (Papendick & Campbell 1981).The difference between that and any likely soil /Psi1w (i.e., 0 to −10 MPa) drives water movementfrom the soil through a plant to the atmosphere.www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 411Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41For soil microbes, water potential is a fundamental control over survival and function. Microbesare small and in intimate contact with their environment; because nothing exists between them andthe soil except their cell membrane and wall, they necessarily equilibrate with the water potentialin the soil around them. As soil dries out and its /Psi1w drops (becomes more negative), microbial cellsare challenged; to avoid losing water to their environment and dehydrating, they must accumulatesolutes to lower their internal solute potential to match the water potential of the surroundingsoil. To avoid this, they may form impermeable cell walls (such as occurs in Bacillus spp. spores),but then they cannot readily take up other resources.As cellular water potential drops, it may cause a loss of cell turgor (Harris 1981), which isanalogous to wilting in plants. The loss of turgor can interfere with microbial physiological func-tions, reducing metabolic rates. Eventually, a reduction in cell water potential can cause cellularfunctions to fail, killing the organism.One of the key characteristics of the relationship between water content versus matric potential(/Psi1m) is the extreme nonlinearity (Papendick & Campbell 1981). When soils are wet, water contentcan change substantially without signiﬁcantly reducing water potential. However, when soils aredry, even a slight change in soil water content can cause a large change in matric potential. Thesecurves vary with the texture (particle size distribution) or organic matter content of the soil. Insoils that are ﬁner or that have more organic matter, the curves shift: At any water content, a ﬁner-textured soil will have a lower (more negative) matric potential, and at any given water potential,a ﬁner-textured soil will contain more water than a coarse-textured soil.1.2. Water as SolventThe second way in which water controls microbial activity in soils is as a solvent. With fewexceptions, the substrates that microbes use as energy sources are water soluble; the exceptionsare gases such as methane and nitrous oxide and a few volatile organics such as acetic acid, terpenes,and isoprenes (Cleveland & Yavitt 1997). Often, researchers distinguish between insoluble soilorganic carbon (SOC) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC); however, this is an oversimpliﬁcation.As soil dries, and the volume of liquid water decreases, some solutes become concentrated, whereasothers likely precipitate out. Substrates that are sparingly soluble may show complex behaviors.For example, Qualls (2000) extracted forest ﬂoor samples with water daily (the extraction lastedthe entire 24 h) for 21 days; it was not until at least 10 extraction cycles that additional DOC wasno longer recovered. Whether material was insoluble or sorbed onto soil particles is unclear, butthe presence of large pools of water-soluble materials that are not immediately in solution is animportant characteristic of soils.1.3. Water as a Transport MediumWater in soil not only is a vital resource and solvent but also is the fundamental transport pathwayfor solutes and microorganisms. Microorganisms can take up only small molecules, and so theyrely on extracellular enzymes to break down polymers and diffusion to access small molecules(Wallenstein & Weintraub 2008). Because most substrates are water soluble, connected water-ﬁlled pores are vital to allow transport of resources to microbes (Bailey et al. 2017, Tecon & Or2017). As soils dry and water ﬁlms on soil particles become thinner, paths for diffusion becomelonger and more tortuous ( Figure 1 bversus Figure 1 c) and may break altogether ( Figure 1 aversus Figure 1 b,c). In fact, a breakdown in hydrological connection has been argued as a primaryrationale for the effects of soil drying on soil community dynamics (Carson et al. 2010) andbiogeochemistry (Lawrence et al. 2009, Manzoni & Katul 2014, Manzoni et al. 2016, Or et al.412 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:412007). As soils dry, macropores drain ﬁrst; thus, the diffusivity of soil declines dramatically asmoisture content drops (Tecon & Or 2017) ( Figure 1 ). As a result, resource supply declinesdisproportionally to water content. The reduction in diffusion as soils dry is well understoodfrom soil physics, but explicitly considering physical transport processes in soil biology has lagged(Dwivedi et al. 2017, Evans et al. 2016, Manzoni et al. 2014, Smith et al. 2017).Distinguishing between direct physiological stress and indirect diffusion-driven substrate limi-tation as drivers of reduced microbial activity is tricky. One approach is to use gas-phase substrates.Stark & Firestone (1995) used15NH 3to separate moisture controls on nitriﬁcation, the oxida-tion of ammonium to nitrate, and showed that, down to a water potential of −0.5 MPa, reduceddiffusion accounted for at least 50% of the reduction in nitriﬁcation.The importance of transport in regulating microbial responses to moisture stress is suggestedby a meta-analysis of moisture effects on microbial activity. Manzoni et al. (2012) found a lineardecrease in relative microbial activity with decreasing water potential, leading to thresholds atwhich activity ceases ( −13.8 MPa in mineral soils and −36.5 MPa in surface plant residues). Theyconcluded that although the threshold in residues may reﬂect microbial physiology, the thresholdin mineral soils must be constrained by reduced diffusion—the consistency and insensitivity tosite history suggest it is likely driven by physical, rather than biological, processes. This ﬁndingis also consistent with the argument framed by Schimel & Schaeffer (2012) that microbial accessto soil carbon is the primary control on whether that carbon is decomposed (and respired toCO2), although the fate of the carbon—how it is allocated by microbes to growth versus otherprocesses—may be controlled by the composition of the microbial community.The ability of the soil to support transport also inﬂuences soil food webs. The smallest microbialpredators (protozoa, nematodes, tardigrades, and phage) depend on cilia and ﬂagella to swimthrough water-ﬁlled pores (Geisen et al. 2014). As soils dry, their ability to ﬁnd their microbialprey declines, and microbial mortality decreases. Predators require relatively large pores to movethrough the soil, larger than are needed for molecules to diffuse; hence, as soils dry, predationlikely slows before microbial activity or even growth decline. For example, at a water potentialof−0.1 MPa, relatively large pores remain water ﬁlled ( ∼3µm diameter); this would be smallenough to constrain the movement of soil fauna. At −1 MPa, only pores smaller than 0.3 µmremain water ﬁlled (Papendick & Campbell 1981). Soil mesofauna, such as mites and collembola,move through air spaces and so may remain active in drier soils, but as bacteria primarily live inﬁne pores (Foster 1988, Mummey et al. 2006), they may be somewhat protected from predationin dry soils.By functioning simultaneously as a resource, solvent, and transport medium, water createscomplex microbial responses driven by a combination of effects on resource availability, organismalphysiology, community dynamics, and food web dynamics. As soils dry, these effects becomeincreasingly extreme.2. ORGANISMAL RESPONSES2.1. Osmotic AcclimationMicrobial responses to water stress are complex (Wood 2015). To retain water as soils dry and/Psi1m declines, microbes must reduce their internal solute potential ( /Psi1s) by accumulating solutes(osmolytes) (Csonka 1989, Killham & Firestone 1984, Wood 2015). Microbes preferentially accu-mulate organic molecules that reduce /Psi1s without disrupting cell metabolism (so-called compatiblesolutes); these include proline, glycine betaine, trehalose, and glutamate. Inorganic ions, notablyK+, are harmful at high concentrations; cells use these after they have exhausted their abilitywww.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 413Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41to synthesize or take up compatible solutes (Killham & Firestone 1984). Bacteria are classicallythought to rely on nitrogenous osmolytes such as proline and glycine betaine, whereas fungi usepolyols and simple carbohydrates such as glycerol, erythritol, and mannitol (Witteveen & Visser1995). When grown in culture, microbes show a range of strategies for accumulating osmolytes—from not accumulating any, to producing them in response to reduced water potentials, tomaintaining high levels of compounds in their cytoplasm (Harris 1981, Killham & Firestone1984).As studies have begun to analyze microbial osmolyte accumulation in situ, however, the pat-terns observed in pure culture studies have not stood up well. Although Warren (2014) foundknown osmolytes in dry soils, other researchers have not. For example, Boot et al. (2013) ana-lyzed the accumulation of amino acids in the microbial biomass of a California grassland whereessentially no rain falls between April and October. They found no evidence that amino acidsacted as osmolytes; glutamate levels were consistently 2–3% of the total microbial biomass. Theother putative osmolytes—proline and glycine betaine—were absent (Boot et al. 2013). They fur-ther concluded that in California grasslands, no plausible concentration of osmolytes would keepmicrobes hydrated. In these soils, /Psi1m can drop below −30 MPa (Barnard et al. 2014), which islikely beyond microbes’ ability to osmoregulate: At even 1 M solute concentration, /Psi1si so n l yapproximately −5 MPa (Davis et al. 2000, Harris 1981). Additionally, Boot et al. (2013) arguedthat, as soils dry, diffusion and substrate supply would become limiting before moisture becamestressful. Hence, osmolytes might be both unaffordable and ineffective. Similar conclusions weredrawn by Kakumanu et al. (2013) who found that as drying became more intense, extractableorganic carbon increased but known osmolytes actually decreased.Perhaps it is not surprising that soil-based studies show different patterns than culture-basedstudies—organisms that do not synthesize osmolytes are unlikely to grow in salty culture media.Given that the majority of microorganisms in soil have never been cultured, including wholelineages (Becraft et al. 2017), it seems possible that the classic osmolytes are not representative ofdominant microbial drought acclimation strategies. Rather, soil microbes appear more likely tosurvive dehydrating and to rehydrate, recover, and regrow (Meisner et al. 2017).2.2. Resource UseWater stress alters microbial resource use in a variety of ways. Dry soils can reduce microbial accessto soluble resources, and drought stress can reduce the efﬁciency with which microorganisms useresources. But drying can also increase access to gaseous and volatile substrates.2.2.1. Carbon use and growth efﬁciency. As soils dry, diffusion rates decline and semisolublematerials precipitate. This combination means that as water stress increases, microbes becomeresource limited, and it should limit their ability to use physiological acclimation strategies, suchas synthesizing compatible solutes, that cost energy and require carbon.If microbes must use an active physiological acclimation strategy to survive and remain func-tional under stress, as opposed to avoiding stress by entering dormancy (see Section 2.4), onemight expect them to reduce their growth efﬁciency—microbes under stress would be expected toallocate fewer resources to reproduction and more to survival (Schimel et al. 2007). With reducedgrowth efﬁciency, biomass should decline in dry soils. Few studies have addressed this directly;however, one study that came close used13C-acetic acid vapor to measure microbial carbon useefﬁciency (CUE) (Herron et al. 2009). The authors assessed the fraction of13C converted intomicrobial carbon, although this likely included osmolytes and extracellular materials. CUE didnot change as the soil dried until moisture had dropped to 0.05 g H 2O/g soil, at which level414 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41/Psi1m had dropped below −0.6 MPa. At that moisture, total microbial respiration had declined byapproximately 30%, and estimates of growth efﬁciency based on13C immobilization versus grossnitrogen mineralization diverged, suggesting disruption of cellular processes.2.2.2. Volatile substrates. In contrast to organisms that rely on water-soluble substrates, organ-isms that rely on volatile or gaseous substrates, most notably methanotrophs that obtain energyfrom oxidizing methane gas, beneﬁt from modest soil drying (Borken et al. 2006, Dijkstra et al.2011, Fest et al. 2017). For these organisms, as soil dries, substrate availability increases becausesubstrate is supplied by gaseous diffusion through air-ﬁlled pores ( Figure 1 ). Increased substratesupply as soils dry may balance increasing physiological stress and so reduce their overall sensitivityto drought. For example, Gulledge & Schimel (1998) found that in an Alaskan boreal forest, CH4consumption was maximal at 30% of water holding capacity (WHC), whereas CO 2productiondid not peak until at least 60% of WHC. Fest et al. (2017) showed that when throughfall wasreduced in a eucalypt forest, soil water content decreased by 15%, but air-ﬁlled porosity increasedby 20%; the net effect was to increase soil methane uptake by more than 50%. This study, how-ever, observed limited evidence of moisture stress under dry conditions—only a hint was found inthe data that methanotroph activity dropped even under the driest conditions ( <20% water-ﬁlledpore space). The conclusion that moderate soil drying does not stress methane oxidizers was re-inforced by Stiehl-Braun et al. (2011), who used14C-CH 4and autoradiography to evaluate thelocation of CH 4oxidation. Drought roughly halved volumetric soil moisture but increased CH 4consumption. Notably, drought expanded the zone of consumption deeper into the soil proﬁlebut did not visibly reduce consumption in the surface soil, as might be expected if drying inhibitedactivity.2.3. Microbial Extracellular Polymers: Enhancing the MicroenvironmentMicrobes may improve function and survival under harsh conditions by enhancing their localmicroenvironment. One way to do this is to produce extracellular polymeric substances (EPS);these are primarily polysaccharides but also contain DNA, proteins, and other materials releasedfrom live or dying cells (More et al. 2014). EPS act as sponges, delaying drying, and may retainwater even at low /Psi1m. EPS cannot, however, prevent /Psi1m from equilibrating with the bulk soiland so, ultimately, cannot prevent physiological stress. But as soils dry, the EPS gel may connectmicroorganisms and substrates and so support activity at low /Psi1m (Holden 2011, Tecon & Or 2017,Wolfaardt et al. 1999). If drought reduces microbial activity by collapsing diffusion and limitingsubstrate supply, synthesizing EPS should be a useful drought acclimation strategy (Chenu &Roberson 1996, Manzoni & Katul 2014, Or et al. 2007).As with most things related to soil, the speciﬁc nature of the materials found in any location orsoil type is likely to depend partially on the nature of the organisms that produced the EPS andpartially on the nature of the mineral phase—different types of compounds bind preferentially todifferent clay minerals (Lin et al. 2016).2.4. DormancyMany microorganisms go dormant when conditions become unfavorable ( Jones & Lennon 2010).Endospores, formed by several Firmicutes groups (Filippidou et al. 2016), may be the epitomeof stress survival mechanisms (Nicholson et al. 2002), but there are other forms of dormancy.Dormancy is an effective evolutionary strategy for surviving resource and physical stressorswww.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 415Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41( Jones & Lennon 2010), particularly when stress occurs regularly, such as in Mediterraneanecosystems that regularly go without rain for six months or more.The distinction between actual dormancy and mere starvation or stasis, however, may beunclear. Dormancy carries a cost—microbes must invest in dormancy, spending carbon to createstructures that enhance long-term survival. However, as soils dry, many microbes may just toughit out and run out of resources, or they may simply dehydrate. One would expect that eithermechanism would reduce survival relative to that possible with true dormancy, but this remains apoorly studied area of soil biology.3. COMMUNITY RESPONSES3.1. BiomassStress alters communities, shifting dominance and relationships. But, in soil, the ﬁrst questionabout how moisture inﬂuences microbes is simple: How does drought stress inﬂuence the totalsize of the microbial mass?3.1.1. Seasonal patterns. One might predict that microbial biomass would decline as soils dry:Stress, reduced rhizosphere inputs, and limited substrate supply should all reduce microbial sur-vival. However, this is not always the case—microbial biomass often remains stable or even in-creases through months-long dry periods (Aponte et al. 2010, Landesman & Dighton 2010, Parker& Schimel 2011, Schaeffer et al. 2017). Rather, a decline in biomass sometimes occurs with thestart of the wet season, even while activity spikes (Butterly et al. 2009, Parker & Schimel 2011,Schaeffer et al. 2017). Why? It must be that, although growth rates may be very low during thedry season, death rates are even lower. As microbial and consumer activity increase with the onsetof rains, however, microbial biomass can decline.3.1.2. Experimental dry–rewet cycles. Seasonal patterns, however, do not necessarily matchﬁndings from studies that focus on responses to either individual dry–wet events or multipledry–wet cycles. Studies regularly show some immediate decline in biomass following rewetting.Following a single dry–rewet cycle, Wu & Brookes (2005) noted that microbial biomass haddeclined by 44% in a silty-clay loam soil from the Rothamsted permanent pasture plots. In aBritish grassland, following a single dry–rewet event, microbial biomass declined (Gordon et al.2008), although microbial nitrogen showed a spike immediately following rewetting.Despite an immediate drop that sometimes follows a dry–rewet cycle, biomass of microbes mayrecover (Saetre & Stark 2005), as may populations of protozoa. The overall upshift in microbialactivity, growth, and food web dynamics might explain why in some ecosystems (such as Californiagrasslands) microbial biomass increases under drought but then declines during the wet season(Schaeffer et al. 2017).3.2. Community CompositionAs with overall biomass, the composition of the bacterial community (as indicated by mem-brane lipids or DNA) may change relatively little with drought and rewetting, even amongsoils that have experienced substantially divergent antecedent conditions (Barnard et al. 2014,Butterly et al. 2009, Evans & Wallenstein 2012, Kakumanu et al. 2013). But when seasonalshifts do occur, the drivers of these shifts are difﬁcult to sort out. Are seasonal shifts caused bychanges in moisture and temperature that act directly on the microbes? Or does the environment416 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41inﬂuence microbes through plant phenology and associated seasonality in carbon inputs tosoils? Photosynthesis, root exudation, and litter production are all sensitive to drought, so cli-mate and weather inﬂuence microbial communities through multiple pathways (Bardgett et al.2008).Analyzing microbial community change during drought and rewetting is challenging because ofthe constraints inherent in microbial community analysis approaches. DNA analyses, for example,may capture relic DNA from long-dead organisms (Carini et al. 2016). Ribosomal RNA (rRNA)reﬂects only live organisms, but comparisons across taxa are fraught because cellular rRNA levelsand ratios of rRNA:DNA vary enormously across taxa (Blazewicz et al. 2013); even some dor-mant cells may contain high numbers of ribosomes. Perhaps the most reliable tool for assessingcommunity response is stable isotope probing that analyzes only DNA from organisms that haveincorporated a tracer—if that tracer is applied during rewetting, the method can reliably analyzepopulations that have replicated following rewetting (Dumont & Murrell 2005). Of course, thismethod does not indicate what happened during the dry phase—which organisms survived andwhich died?The simplest hypothesis for drought effects on microbial communities is that patterns are drivenby death—organisms die from physiological stress or starvation. This leaves other organismsdominating the community at a time when activity and growth are limited; death also releasesmaterial from microbial cells (necromass) into the soil, and this material is available to supportthe growth of other organisms when the soil is rewet. But, how much mortality occurs? If cellsdie, is it during the dry phase or during the rewetting that is inherently part of the analysis (Wu &Brookes 2005)? How would you even distinguish between them? Problems exist with the simplelogic that microbial death drives community shifts, however—if death is the driver, microbialbiomass should decline. As noted above, this does not always occur.It might not be the overall composition of the community that shifts with drying and rewettingbut which organisms are active (usually considered to mean actively growing and often deﬁnedbased on rRNA) (Blazewicz et al. 2013). The active organisms are a subset of the whole commu-nity (Barnard et al. 2014). In California annual grassland soil following rewetting, Acidobacteria andVerrucomicrobia increased, whereas Actinobacteria andFirmicutes decreased (Barnard et al. 2014).Acidobacteria dominated the DNA in that soil but showed little seasonal pattern in their total pro-portion of the bacterial community (Barnard et al. 2013). In contrast, Acidobacteria ’s contributionto the rRNA pool (the active community) crashed during the dry season, even though it was thesecond most dominant phylum during the wet season. At the class level, Rubrobacteridae in theActinobacteria were dominant with more than 50% of the rRNA reads; that proportion increasedthrough the dry season (Barnard et al. 2013). Fungi appear to survive drought more successfullythan do bacteria (Evans & Wallenstein 2012).Placella et al. (2012) observed somewhat different results using rRNA following experimentalrewetting— Actinobacteria had high levels of rRNA shortly after rewetting, whereas Bacilli peakedseveral hours later and Proteobacteria rRNA took several days to substantially increase. Interest-ingly, in the same soil, bromodeoxyuridine (BrDU) incorporation into newly synthesized DNAshowed the reverse pattern— Alphaproteobacteria (particularly Sphingomonadaceae )a n d Bacteroideteswere fast responders (31.6% and 29.4% of new DNA sequences 12 h after rewetting, respec-tively), whereas Actinobacteria increased substantially only after 48 h (when it comprised 28% ofthe labeled DNA) (D. Roux-Michollet, J.P. Schimel, P.A. Holden, unpublished observations). Ananalogous but more extensive study (Aanderud et al. 2015) assessed rapidly responding bacteria by18O-stable isotope probing; across a range of ecosystems, the dominant fast-responding bacteriawere the Sphingomonadaceae (in the Alphaproteobacteria ), which accounted for 38% of18O-labeledDNA sequences.www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 417Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41It seems possible that Actinobacteria maintain a level of potential activity such that they canupregulate function quickly following rewetting, whereas other groups are able to start replicatingand actively growing more quickly. The nature of microbial response to drought and rewettingthus remains complex, given the multiple ways in which we may measure and assess activity andgrowth with microorganisms (Blazewicz et al. 2013).Several articles have suggested that microbial community dynamics drive the pulses of CO2following rewetting. For example, Placella et al. (2012) is titled “Rainfall-Induced Carbon DioxidePulses Result from Sequential Resuscitation of Phylogenetically Clustered Microbial Groups,”and the running head of Aanderud et al. (2015) is “Rare Bacteria Generate Pulses of Activity.”But, of course, it is possible, even perhaps likely, that causality goes the other way around, asshown by G ¨oransson et al. (2013), who tracked the timing of respiration versus bacterial growthafter wetting a dry soil; respiration began within minutes, whereas growth (measured by leucineincorporation) did not begin for at least 12 h. This ﬁnding suggests that the mobilized carbon fuelsthe microbial community shifts, and as discussed above, the pulse of available carbon seems drivenby chemical and physical processes; the microbial community dynamics respond to that pulse incarbon availability. From the perspective of soil biogeochemistry, it may therefore be incidentalor even irrelevant which organisms actually metabolize and respire the carbon. The fate of carbonlikely depends not on who metabolizes it but on what they do with it. Only if organisms allocatethe carbon differently, producing materials with different long-term fates (e.g., proteins versus cellwalls versus EPS), would it alter the long-term fate of that carbon (Schimel & Schaeffer 2012).Understanding the balance between the physicochemical and the biological drivers that controlsoil microbes response to moisture remains an important area of research if we are to improve ourunderstanding of the connections between microbial community and biogeochemical dynamics.4. ECOSYSTEM RESPONSES4.1. Carbon CyclingA key metric of how shifting moisture can alter ecosystem dynamics is the alteration of how soilsystems process carbon. The stresses associated with being dry and the processes that occur onrewetting can alter the availability of soil carbon and its fate. Understanding these changes requiresconsidering both the dry period itself and the rewetting.4.1.1. Dry conditions. As soils dry, total microbial activity and respiration decline (Carboneet al. 2011, Davidson et al. 1998, Wu et al. 2011). However, the magnitude of the respirationdecrease varies; in some cases even substantial reductions in soil moisture have only limited effectson respiration (Lu et al. 2017). Reﬂecting the variation in experimentally determined moistureresponses, a number of response curves have been incorporated into models to predict the responseof soil respiration to varying moisture (Bauer et al. 2008) ( Figure 2 ). It is well recognized, however,that as soils become saturated, microbial activity declines due to oxygen limitation (Davidson et al.2012).One question has been which mechanisms are responsible for reduced microbial activity underconditions of moisture limitation. It had often been assumed that microbial activity declines be-cause of microbial physiological responses to moisture stress (Orchard & Cook 1983, Schimel et al.2007). Yet, it seems unlikely that physiological stress alone can adequately explain whole-proﬁleor across-soil patterns in respiration. These patterns seem too coherent to be easily explained byvarying microbial physiology; groups of microorganisms show wildly varying responses to soilmoisture (Harris 1981, Grifﬁn 1981), whereas the actual response patterns of microbial activity418 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41reduction factorMean –0.10.10.30.50.70.91.1Reduction factor0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.0Water content (cm3 cm–3)DAISYPATCISROTHCSOILCO2CENTURYCANDYFigure 2Soil moisture reduction functions of soil heterotrophic respiration as represented in six different carbonmodels dependent on the volumetric water content. The gray shaded area represents the standard variation.Figure adapted from Bauer et al. (2008) with permission.relative to water potential show regular, deﬁned patterns with distinct thresholds of water potentialat which microbial activity ceases(Manzoni et al. 2012) ( Figure 3 ).One process that may inﬂuence how carbon cycling responds to altered moisture is depolymer-ization by extracellular enzymes, because depolymerization is the critical ﬁrst step in making plantdetritus available for microbial use (Henry 2012, Schimel & Bennett 2004). However, enzymeactivities do not show consistent responses to moisture (Alster et al. 2013, Sardans et al. 2008),perhaps because actual enzyme responses can result from changes in either the amount of enzymepresent or the activity of individual enzyme molecules. Separating these can be difﬁcult becausemodern assays measure potential enzyme activity using artiﬁcial substrates under optimal condi-tions (including adequate moisture) rather than ﬁeld conditions (German et al. 2011); therefore,we have good reason to suspect that enzyme potential measurements may not reliably reﬂect insitu activity (Schimel et al. 2017). Extracellular enzymes are small and in intimate contact withsubstrate, and thus need thinner water ﬁlms and smaller water-ﬁlled pores to function than dolarger microbial cells; hence, enzyme activity might continue even as cellular metabolism declineswith soil drying (Geisseler et al. 2011). Enzyme activity continuing even after microbial respira-tion declines might account for the increase in extractable organic matter pools when soils are dry(Schaeffer et al. 2017). However, this hypothesis has not been adequately tested.4.1.2. Rewetting. It has long been recognized that rewetting a dry soil causes a pulse of CO2(the Birch effect) (Birch 1958, G ¨oransson et al. 2013, Kim et al. 2012). The CO 2pulse can bemany times greater than the basal level of respiration. However, the mechanism that drives theBirch effect remains unclear. Does it result from microbes respiring osmolytes that are suddenlya lethal liability? Does it result from microbes metabolizing the corpses of those that died duringthe drought or were killed by rewetting? Or does rewetting mobilize stable soil carbon that is thenrespired by surviving microbes?Which mechanism is responsible for the Birch effect will inﬂuence long-term carbon dynam-ics, particularly as drying and rewetting intensify with climate change (Dai 2012). If the carbonreleased is microbial (osmolytes or dead cells), that carbon would be within a rapidly turningover, active carbon fraction (Parton et al. 1988). Additionally, if the carbon comes from microbeswww.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 419Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:4110–21001020.00.20.40.60.81.01.2ψfcψfcNormalized activitya   Mineral soils0.00.20.40.60.81.01.2Normalized activityb   Surface plant residuesWater potential, |ψ| (MPa)10–2 100 102Water potential, |ψ| (MPa)Physically disturbedsoil or litterIntact soil or litterMesic conifer forestMesic grassland and croplandMesic deciduous forestSemiarid and MediterraneanFigure 3Microbial community-level responses of respiration, expressed as a fraction of maximum, as a function ofwater potential ψin (a) mineral soil and ( b) surface plant residues (i.e., forest ﬂoor, leaf litter layer, or cropresidues). ψfcrepresents ψat ﬁeld capacity. Light blue lines represent physically disturbed soil or litter; darkblue lines represent incubations of intact soil or litter samples. Figure adapted from Manzoni et al. (2012)with permission.killed by the stress of dry–rewet cycles, it could suggest a loss of microbial capabilities and hencea potential reduction in future carbon losses. Thus, if the Birch effect carbon release is primar-ily from microbial materials, dry–wet cycling might reduce long-term carbon loss from soil. Incontrast, if the Birch effect results from mobilizing otherwise stable old carbon pools, it wouldfuel microbial growth, possibly priming the loss of additional stable soil carbon. With this mech-anism, dry–wet cycles could act to mobilize stable soil carbon and reduce long-term soil carbonstorage.420 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41A general, but confusing, pattern emerges from rewetting experiments: Studies on single pulsesoften conclude that the carbon is lost from the microbial biomass (e.g., Fierer et al. 2003, Kieft et al.1987). In contrast, studies evaluating multiple wet–dry cycles often conclude that the overall carbonloss over time is too large to be attributed purely to biomass loss—the carbon must come fromstable soil carbon (Miller et al. 2005, Xiang et al. 2008). Reconciling these different perspectiveshas remained a challenge, likely because multiple mechanisms are at play (Borken & Matzner2009), and the real question ought to be about the balance among mechanisms.Fierer et al. (2003) used a pulse-chase14C approach to discern the source of the CO 2pulsethat results after rewetting. They added14C-glucose to moist grassland soil then dried the soil,rewet it, and measured the enrichment of both CO 2and extractable organic carbon. The CO 2respired was roughly 50% more14C enriched than overall microbial biomass, whereas extractabledissolved organic carbon was only 15% to 30% as enriched as the biomass. They concluded that“the rewetting pulse is generated from microbial biomass C, but without signiﬁcant microbial celllysis” (Fierer et al. 2003, p. 804).In contrast, Miller et al. (2005) ran a chaparral soil through multiple dry–wet cycles over 110days; it released almost twice as much CO 2as soils incubated at constant optimum moisture.More additional carbon was released than was initially present in the microbial biomass, excludingbiomass as a possible ultimate source of CO2.Analogous results were found in a grassland soil, where multiple dry–wet cycles increased bothCO 2release and microbial biomass (Xiang et al. 2008), particularly in deep soils, where bothincreased by more than ﬁvefold. This work led the authors to conclude, “Thus, it isn’t possiblethat the ‘extra’ CO 2could have come from C lost from microbial biomass as a result of stress”(Xiang et al. 2008, p. 2287). Other studies have also found that dry–wet cycles have limited effectson overall microbial biomass. For example, Mikha et al. (2005) found that biomass carbon in asilt loam mollisol was unaffected by dry–wet cycles, although microbial biomass nitrogen actuallyincreased through three cycles.How can we reconcile the conclusions of Fierer et al. (2003) and Xiang et al. (2008)? It seemslikely that the answer lies in the ﬁnding of a ﬂush of unenriched extractable organic carbon byFierer et al. (2003). If, in each cycle, carbon is immediately lost from the microbial biomass andmaterial is simultaneously mobilized from the soil matrix, that mobilized material may be takenup by microbes and used to replace lost biomass carbon (and to fuel additional growth). Hence,through multiple cycles, the carbon mobilized may ultimately be from stable soil carbon, butwithin each cycle the carbon comes immediately from microbial biomass.Total respiration, however, is not always increased over basal levels at optimal moisture by puls-ing; for example, Yu et al. (2014) found that following addition of pea straw to a loamy sand (i.e.,a soil with presumably limited ability to stabilize soil carbon), respiration in all pulsing treatmentswas reduced relative to a constantly moist treatment. An additional complexity is that in some stud-ies rewetting pulses changed little through multiple cycles (Miller et al. 2005, Xiang et al. 2008). Inother studies, however, the size of pulses declined across cycles (e.g., Yu et al. 2014) or the net effectof multiple cycles was to decrease overall respiration (Mikha et al. 2005, Shi & Marschner 2015).Such discrepancies seem to depend on the dynamics of bioavailable carbon. Shi & Marschner(2015) noted that the carbon ﬂush in the ﬁrst wet phase of a dry–wet cycle can constrain the amountrespired during later cycles; they argued that given a ﬁnite pool of carbon that can be mobilizedby rewetting, if more is consumed in the ﬁrst cycle, naturally, less carbon would be available inlater cycles. This argument is logical but does not always apply; in some studies, rewetting pulsesdo not diminish (Miller et al. 2005, Xiang et al. 2008).I hypothesize that two factors regulate the pattern of rewetting pulses. First is a soil’s textureand ability to stabilize biodegradable organic matter (Abramoff et al. 2018, Bailey et al. 2017,www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 421Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Schmidt et al. 2011); second is a soil’s history of physical disturbance (particularly tillage). Clay-rich soils maintain large pools of stable organic matter (OM) that can fuel multiple respirationpulses (Butterly et al. 2010); physical disturbance might deplete such OM pools. These patternsmight explain why a deep clay loam Pachic Argixeroll in California showed large respirationpulses from 600–800-year-old carbon during a laboratory dry–wet cycling experiment (Schimelet al. 2011): In situ, slow percolation might not be as effective at mobilizing carbon as pouringwater on a sample in the laboratory. In contrast, coarse textured and tilled soils showed weakerrewetting pulses (Mikha et al. 2005, Shi & Marschner 2015, Yu et al. 2014).4.1.3. Mechanism of carbon mobilization. The mechanisms of carbon mobilization uponrewetting remain unclear. One possibility is aggregate slaking—as water is drawn into an ag-gregate, air inside is pressurized enough to crack the aggregate open, exposing organic matter toattack (Le Bissonnais 1996, Mikha et al. 2005). However, slaking does not stand up well as a pri-mary mechanism driving the respiration pulse. Mikha et al. (2005) found rewetting pulses withoutsigniﬁcant shifts in aggregate distributions. Schimel et al. (2011) found that rewetting deep, poorlyaggregated soils still mobilized large amounts of carbon. Slaking could explain a large ﬁrst pulse ina series of dry–wet cycles, but presumably the bulk of easily slaked aggregates would be broken upduring that ﬁrst event and so one would expect later cycles to release less CO2(Denef et al. 2001).As noted, however, this is often not the case. An additional argument against the aggregate slakingexplanation is from Navarro-Garc ´ıa et al. (2012), who found that grinding aggregates before dry–wet cycling increased respiration and microbial biomass, but increases only peaked after severalcycles. They postulated that disrupting aggregates exposed particulate organic matter that hadto be broken down by exoenyzmes before it could be respired. Disrupting soil structure is likelyimportant at the whole-proﬁle scale in changing pore distributions as well as water percolationand storage, but mobilizing organic matter appears to be a microscale effect, perhaps associatedwith shifts in hydration of organic coatings on minerals or shifts in ionic strength that might alterorganic matter–mineral binding (Kleber et al. 2007).Whatever the speciﬁc mechanism that mobilizes carbon, it is sensitive to the soil’s extent andhistory of drought. Williams & Xia (2009) dried soils to deﬁned moisture levels, rewet them,and then extracted simple organic molecules. The drier the soils were before rewetting, the morematerial was extracted, with amounts more than doubling when soils were dried to −45 MPa. Soilswith a history of drought stress, however, released less carbon. Most of the materials released werenot classic microbial compounds (simple amino acids, sugars, etc.), reinforcing the conclusion thatthe organic materials mobilized are soil, rather than microbial, compounds.Most work on dry–wet cycling has been done in the laboratory, which raises questions aboutits direct relevance to in situ conditions. In laboratory studies, drying is often much more rapidthan occurs in a natural soil proﬁle, yet the speed of drying is important in regulating the micro-bial response to drying—slower drying allows microbes to sense the developing drought and tosynthesize osmolytes if they are capable of doing so (Warren 2016). Pouring water on disturbedsoil might also mobilize more carbon than would natural rewetting (Smith et al. 2017). If theassumption is that the released carbon is a microbial response to a rapid increase in water potential(dumping osmolytes or dying) (Kieft et al. 1987), how a soil is rewet might be irrelevant. However,if carbon is mobilized from physical protection, the rate and nature of rewetting could be criticalin regulating whether carbon is mobilized. The natural slow percolation of water through soilpores might drive less mass transport of organic molecules between sources and microbes (Smithet al. 2017, Tecon & Or 2017). Such phenomena might explain why so much carbon that is easyto mobilize in the laboratory can be centuries old. Linking the extensive laboratory research ondry–wet cycling to real-world conditions in whole soil is critical.422 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:414.2. Nitrogen CyclingDrought reduces overall microbial activity, and this reduction applies to nitrogen-cycling as wellas carbon-cycling processes. However, as soils dry, the effects on nitrogen cycling can differ fromthose on carbon cycling—resulting from microbial and elemental stoichiometry patterns thatinﬂuence nitrogen mineralization–immobilization dynamics. Just as with respiration, nitrogenmineralization often increases when dry soils are rewet (Leitner et al. 2017, Saetre & Stark 2005).The material mobilized by rewetting is rich enough in nitrogen that as microbes regrow theyhave surplus nitrogen and so mineralize nitrogen. Potential nitrogen-rich substrates that couldfuel such a ﬂush would include bacterial osmolytes, microbial necromass (Liang et al. 2017), andnitrogen-rich but clay-protected small molecules (Kleber et al. 2007). Fungi, conversely, producenitrogen-free osmolytes, such as trehalose and polyols (Davis et al. 2000), and so should stimulateimmobilization on rewetting.A critical step in the nitrogen cycle is nitriﬁcation, which regulates whether nitrogen becomesvulnerable to leaching or denitriﬁcation. Nitriﬁcation is sensitive to soil drying, being constrainedby NH4+diffusion in dry soils (Stark & Firestone 1995). But even in ecosystems that as a wholeappear nitrogen limited, rewetting creates a ﬂush of available nitrogen, which can make an ecosys-tem appear nitrogen saturated (Homyak et al. 2014). As California soils dry in the summer, NH4+becomes the dominant nitrogen form, but nitriﬁcation switches on rapidly following rewetting(Parker & Schimel 2011). NH 3oxidizers appear to switch on before NO 2−oxidizers (Placella &Firestone 2013), allowing NO 2−to accumulate and drive a pulse of NO ﬂux following rewetting(Homyak et al. 2016). Hence, drying–rewetting dynamics appear to have disproportional effectson nitrogen losses and trace gas dynamics relative to their effects on carbon cycling.4.3. Large-Scale Biogeochemical DynamicsMoisture regulates soil respiration and can act as a master variable: Drying can dampen respiratoryresponses to warming. For example, across a range of Alaskan forest sites, respiration increased withwarming following a general Q10relationship but only up to 17◦C (Gulledge & Schimel 2000)(Figure 4 ). Above this temperature, respiration rates were low and insensitive to temperature.The break occurred because, in Alaska, rain is always cool and evaporation limits heating; soilscould warm only above 17◦C if they were dry enough to be water stressed. Although such sharpthreshold responses have rarely been reported, a decreasing temperature sensitivity as soils dry iscommon (Conant et al. 2004, 2017) as are complex interactions between temperature and moisturesensitivity (Davidson et al. 1998, Sierra et al. 2015).We know surprisingly little about the overall dynamics of drying and wetting in situ in micro-bial systems because it is difﬁcult to simultaneously document the physical distribution of waterthrough the soil proﬁle and the processes responsible for driving biogeochemical ﬂuxes followingrewetting (Castanha et al. 2018, Collins et al. 2014). Particularly, identifying soil chemical changesis difﬁcult in dry soils because most chemicals are water soluble and unmeasurable without extrac-tion. However, a novel technique for sampling soil solution with minimal physical disturbanceis microdialysis (Inselsbacher et al. 2011), which uses a small ﬂow-through dialysis membrane tosample materials free to diffuse through the soil solution; using microdialysis, it is possible to fol-low hour-by-hour dynamics of materials in soil solution following rewetting (Leitner et al. 2017)(Figure 5 ). In the immediate post-rewetting period, simultaneous to a pulse of NO, inorganicnitrogen species become depleted in solution; however, roughly one day following the rewetting,a pulse of ammoniﬁcation is seen—a time when microbial growth is rapid (G ¨oransson et al. 2013,Placella et al. 2012).www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 423Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:410CO 2 flux (g C m–2 d–1)10Soil temperature (°C)15 20 25 30 35 5 01234567FloodplainAlderSpruceUplandBirchSpruce1992 1993 1994Figure 4Temperature response of respiration measured in a range of Alaskan taiga forest stands from 1992 to 1994.The red lines represent the temperature responses below and above 17◦C. The dashed blue line illustratesthe sharp threshold between these temperature regimes. Figure adapted from Gulledge & Schimel (2000).Improving our understanding of how drought and dry–wet cycles drive whole-soil biogeo-chemical processes is going to be critical to improve our understanding of how these processeswill respond to the changing climate, which we anticipate will create more drought and moreerratic soil moisture regimes. To build new generations of Earth System models that can capturechanging climate and weather patterns, addressing dry soil and rewetting dynamics will be critical.4.4. Modeling the Effect of Drought on SoilClassical carbon and nitrogen cycling models (e.g., CENTURY, ROTHC) assume microbialcommunities and processes are in quasi steady state with their environment (Schimel 2001). Suchmodels deal with moisture effects on microbial processes by using reducing functions to accountfor less-than-perfect conditions (Parton et al. 1987). They include no effects of rewetting or ofmoisture history. In other words, soils have no memory—if they are wet now, they are wet. Thatthey were dry 10 minutes before does not matter. But drying–rewetting events are the epitome ofnon-steady state; hence, classical models do poorly under these conditions (Li et al. 2006).Several perspectives have driven how moisture is represented in soil models. Some focus onwater potential—in other words, water is a resource required to maintain physiological activity(Manzoni et al. 2012). Others have focused on developing integrated metrics that capture thebalance of water versus oxygen as a control over respiration. For example, Linn & Doran (1984)showed that microbial activity was maximal at 60% water-ﬁlled pore space; this is the moisturecontent at which soil micropores are ﬁlled with water while macropores are drained, balancingsubstrate supply against effective soil aeration (McCulley et al. 2005, Moyano et al. 2013, Skoppet al. 1990).424 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:411.501.251.000.750.500.250.050.000.100.000.051.002.003.004.005.006.000.000.050.150.100.00NO 3– flux(μg N cm–2 h–1)NO 2– flux(μg N cm–2 h–1)NH 4+ flux(μg N cm–2 h–1)Amino acid flux(μg N cm–2 h–1)a10 12 14 16 18 20 22 32 24 26 28 30 02468Time after rewetting (h)bcd0.100.10Figure 5Diffusive ﬂuxes of ( a)N O 3−,(b)N O 2−,(c)N H 4+,a n d( d) the sum of 17 amino acids determined in situ withmicrodialysis after wetting a California grassland soil. Figure adapted from Leitner et al. (2017) withpermission.www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 425Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41New approaches to modeling have been exploring explicit approaches to capturing biogeo-chemical processes (Abramoff et al. 2018, Lawrence et al. 2009, Li et al. 2010, Manzoni et al.2016, Sulman et al. 2014). One approach to capturing rewetting pulses in a ﬁrst-order model isto create an empirical rewetting pulse function (Li et al. 2010); this substantially improved DAY-CENT’s ability to capture dry–wet cycles. However, any such function derives from a speciﬁc setof conditions that might not apply under different circumstances. Lawrence et al. (2009) modeleddry–wet cycles by assuming that extracellular enzymes remain active in dry soil and that reactionproducts accumulate, waiting for adequate water to support diffusion of products to active cells.This assumption, however, is not supported by measurements that showed reducing sugars did notaccumulate in dead roots that had been sampled from the ﬁeld and incubated dry in the laboratory(Homyak et al. 2018). In contrast, Manzoni et al. (2016) integrated both enzymatic breakdown anddiffusion to estimate how soil drying and rewetting regulate soil processes. The essential behaviorthat allows these models to capture dry–wet dynamics is that they separate the generation of smallmolecules from their uptake and metabolism; thus, they accumulate during dry periods but arerapidly consumed on wetting. The speciﬁc mechanism may not be critical, as long as the carbonis mobilized from appropriate pools and with appropriate dynamics. Getting the linkages amongprocesses right remains a critical area to integrate climate, soil hydrology, and soil biogeochemicalprocesses.5. SYNTHESIS AND RESOLUTIONWater is the ultimate resource for life. Yet, few terrestrial ecosystems do not experience episodicdrought, times when moisture limits microbial activity, organic matter decomposition, and nu-trient mineralization. The mechanisms by which moisture regulates soil processes, however, arecomplex. Water is an essential physiological resource for microbial cellular function, and water’srole as a resource has often been perceived as its primary role in controlling microbial activityin soil. That is largely why moisture effects have been modeled following the normal form forpotentially limiting resources—increasing to a maximal response level ( Figure 3 ).Increasingly, however, it appears that water’s role as a resource might actually be the leastimportant of its three roles in regulating soil processes. Rather, water is critical as both a solventand a transport medium; these roles appear critical in regulating how soil moisture regulatesbiogeochemical processes. The majority of organic substrates in soil are water soluble, and theirmetabolism is regulated by the movement of chemicals in solution from sources to microbes(Schimel & Schaeffer 2012).Microbial community responses to dry conditions and to subsequent wetting events are com-plex, and understanding these may prove key in deciphering the microbial ecology of soil (Tecon& Or 2017). But organismal responses may actually not be very important in regulating how soilorganic matter is processed through dry and rewetting cycles. Rather, as soil microbes are generallycarbon starved, whatever biodegradable carbon becomes accessible will be rapidly metabolized.Hence, the diversity and community composition may be more a response to the shifts in moistureand carbon availability than an independent driver of the processes. As physical transport appearsto be a main factor regulating organic matter dynamics under drought and rewetting, the factorsregulating carbon mobilization are critical yet remain poorly understood.After working through what we know (and think we know) about how soil microbes andmicrobial processes respond to drought and rewetting, the answers to a number of major questionsremain that are either uncertain or simply unresolved. Answering the following questions willimprove our understanding of soil ecology—in fact, it might transform it.426 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41FUTURE ISSUES1. What is the balance of direct physiological stress versus resource supply as drivers ofmicrobial dynamics through drought and dry–wet cycles?2. How much microbial mortality occurs during the dry season versus during rewetting?3. Does a causal connection between the microbial community shifts that occur withdrought and rewetting and the associated carbon ﬂuxes exist? Are microbial communitydynamics drivers of the abiotic resource pulses, or are microbes effectively responders tothese pulses?4. What are the origins and chemical nature of the organic matter respired by soil microbeson rewetting?5. How will altered dry–wet cycles inﬂuence ecosystem-scale carbon storage?DISCLOSURE STATEMENTThe author is not aware of any afﬁliations, memberships, funding, or ﬁnancial holdings that mightbe perceived as affecting the objectivity of this review.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI give thanks to the very long list of students, postdoctoral students, and colleagues who haveworked with me in studying the effects of water on soil processes—an area that has dominated mylife since I was a PhD student! Particular thanks go to Mary Firestone who started me on this road.Thanks also to Eric Slessarev who read a recent version of this article and Peter Homyak whosework on nitrogen cycling in dryland soils is groundbreaking. The US National Science Foundationhas supported my research in this area though a number of grants over several decades.LITERATURE CITEDAanderud ZT, Jones SE, Fierer N, Lennon JT. 2015. Resuscitation of the rare biosphere contributes to pulsesof ecosystem activity. Front. Microbiol. 6:24Abramoff R, Xu X, Hartman M, O’Brien S, Feng W, et al. 2018. The millennial model: in search of measurablepools and transformations for modeling soil carbon in the new century. Biogeochemistry 137:51–71Alster CJ, German DP, Lu Y, Allison SD. 2013. Microbial enzymatic responses to drought and to nitrogenaddition in a southern California grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 64:68–79Aponte C, Mara ˜n´on T, Garc ´ıa LV. 2010. Microbial C, N and P in soils of Mediterranean oak forests: inﬂuenceof season, canopy cover and soil depth. Biogeochemistry 101(1):77–92Bailey VL, Smith AP, Tfaily M, Fansler SJ, Bond-Lamberty B. 2017. Differences in soluble organic carbonchemistry in pore waters sampled from different pore size domains. Soil Biol. Biochem. 107:133–43Bardgett RD, Freeman C, Ostle NJ. 2008. Microbial contributions to climate change through carbon cyclefeedbacks. ISME J . 2:805–14Barnard RL, Osborne CA, Firestone MK. 2013. Responses of soil bacterial and fungal communities to extremedesiccation and rewetting. ISME J . 7(11):2229–41Barnard RL, Osborne CA, Firestone MK. 2014. Changing precipitation pattern alters soil microbial commu-nity response to wet-up under a Mediterranean-type climate. ISME J . 9(4):946–57Bauer J, Herbst M, Huisman JA, Weiherm ¨uller L, Vereecken H. 2008. Sensitivity of simulated soil het-erotrophic respiration to temperature and moisture reduction functions. Geoderma 145:17–27www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 427Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Becraft ED, Woyke T, Jarett J, Ivanova N, Godoy-Vitorino F, et al. 2017. Rokubacteria: genomic giantsamong the uncultured bacterial phyla. Front. Microbiol. 8:1–12Birch HF. 1958. The effect of soil drying on humus decomposition and nitrogen availability. Plant Soil 10:9–31Blazewicz SJ, Barnard RL, Daly RA, Firestone MK. 2013. Evaluating rRNA as an indicator of microbialactivity in environmental communities: limitations and uses. ISME J . 7(11):2061–68Boot CM, Schaeffer SM, Schimel JP. 2013. Static osmolyte concentrations in microbial biomass during seasonaldrought in a California grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 57:356–61Borken W, Davidson EA, Savage K, Sundquist ET, Steudler P. 2006. Effect of summer throughfall exclusion,summer drought, and winter snow cover on methane ﬂuxes in a temperate forest soil. Soil Biol. Biochem.38:1388–95Borken W, Matzner E. 2009. Reappraisal of drying and wetting effects on C and N mineralization and ﬂuxesin soils. Glob. Change Biol. 15(4):808–24Butterly CR, B ¨unemann EK, Mcneill AM, Baldock JA, Marschner P. 2009. Carbon pulses but not phosphoruspulses are related to decreases in microbial biomass during repeated drying and rewetting of soils. SoilBiol. Biochem. 41:1406–16Butterly CR, Marschner P, McNeill AM, Baldock JA. 2010. Rewetting CO 2pulses in Australian agriculturalsoils and the inﬂuence of soil properties. Biol. Fertil. Soils 46:739–53Carbone MS, Still CJ, Ambrose AR, Dawson TE, Williams AP, et al. 2011. Seasonal and episodic moisturecontrols on plant and microbial contributions to soil respiration. Oecologia 167:265–78Carini P, Marsden PJ, Leff JW, Morgan EE, Strickland MS, Fierer N. 2016. Relic DNA is abundant in soiland obscures estimates of soil microbial diversity. Nat. Microbiol. 2:16242Carson JK, Gonzalez-Qui ˜nones V, Murphy DV, Hinz C, Shaw JA, Gleeson DB. 2010. Low pore connectivityincreases bacterial diversity in soil. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 76(12):3936–42Castanha C, Zhu B, Hicks Pries CE, Georgiou K, Torn MS. 2018. The effects of heating, rhizosphere, anddepth on root litter decomposition are mediated by soil moisture. Biogeochemistry 137:267–79Chenu C, Roberson EB. 1996. Diffusion of glucose in microbial extracellular polysaccharide as affected bywater potential. Soil Biol. Biochem. 28(7):877–84Cleveland CC, Yavitt B. 1997. Consumption of atmospheric isoprene in soil. Geophys. Res. Lett. 24:2379–82Collins SL, Belnap J, Grimm NB, Rudgers JA, Dahm CN, et al. 2014. A multiscale, hierarchical model ofpulse dynamics in arid-land ecosystems. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 45:397–419Conant RT, Dalla-Betta P, Klopatek CC, Klopatek JM. 2004. Controls on soil respiration in semiarid soils.Soil Biol. Biochem. 36:945–51Conant RT, Klopatek JM, Malin RC, Klopatek CC. 2017. Carbon pools and ﬂuxes along an environmentalgradient in northern Arizona. Biogeochemistry 43(1):43–61Csonka LN. 1989. Physiological and genetic responses of bacteria to osmotic stress. Microbiol. Rev. 53(1):121–47Dai A. 2012. Increasing drought under global warming in observations and models. Nat. Clim. Change 3(1):52–58Davidson EA, Belk E, Boone RD. 1998. Soil water content and temperature as independent or confoundedfactors controlling soil respiration in a temperate mixed hardwood forest. Glob. Change Biol. 4:217–27Davidson EA, Samanta S, Caramori SS, Savage K. 2012. The Dual Arrhenius and Michaelis-Menten kineticsmodel for decomposition of soil organic matter at hourly to seasonal time scales. Glob. Change Biol.18(1):371–84Davis DJ, Burlak C, Money NP. 2000. Osmotic pressure of fungal compatible osmolytes. Mycol. Res. 104:800–4Denef K, Six J, Bossuyt H, Frey SD, Elliott ET, et al. 2001. Inﬂuence of dry–wet cycles on the interrelationshipbetween aggregate, particulate organic matter, and microbial community dynamics. Soil Biol. Biochem.33:1599–1611Dijkstra FA, Morgan JA, von Fischer JC, Follett RF. 2011. Elevated CO 2and warming effects on CH 4uptakein a semiarid grassland below optimum soil moisture. J. Geophys. Res. 116(G1):G01007Dumont MG, Murrell JC. 2005. Stable isotope probing—linking microbial identity to function. Nat. Rev.Microbiol. 3:499–504428 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Dwivedi D, Riley WJ, Torn MS, Spycher N, Maggi F, Tang JY. 2017. Mineral properties, microbes, transport,and plant-input proﬁles control vertical distribution and age of soil carbon stocks. Soil Biol. Biochem.107:244–59Evans S, Dieckmann U, Franklin O, Kaiser C. 2016. Synergistic effects of diffusion and microbial physiologyreproduce the Birch effect in a micro-scale model. Soil Biol. Biochem. 93:28–37Evans SE, Wallenstein MD. 2012. Soil microbial community response to drying and rewetting stress: Doeshistorical precipitation regime matter? Biogeochemistry 109(1):101–16Fest B, Hinko-Najera N, von Fischer JC, Livesley SJ, Arndt SK. 2017. Soil methane uptake increases un-der continuous throughfall reduction in a temperate evergreen, broadleaved eucalypt forest. Ecosystems20(2):368–79Fierer N, Allen AS, Schimel JP, Holden PA. 2003. Controls on microbial CO 2production: a comparison ofsurface and subsurface soil horizons. Glob. Change Biol. 9(9):1322–32Filippidou S, Wunderlin T, Junier T, Jeanneret N, Dorador C, et al. 2016. A combination of extreme envi-ronmental conditions favor the prevalence of endospore-forming ﬁrmicutes. Front. Microbiol. 7:1707Foster RC. 1988. Microenvironments of soil microorganisms. Biol. Fertil. Soils 6:189–203Geisen S, Bandow C, R ¨ombke J, Bonkowski M. 2014. Soil water availability strongly alters the communitycomposition of soil protists. Pedobiologia 57(4–6):205–13Geisseler D, Horwath WR, Scow KM. 2011. Soil moisture and plant residue addition interact in their effecton extracellular enzyme activity. Pedobiologia 54(2):71–78German DP, Weintraub MN, Grandy AS, Lauber CL, Rinkes ZL, Allison SD. 2011. Optimization of hy-drolytic and oxidative enzyme methods for ecosystem studies. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43(7):1387–97G¨oransson H, Godbold DL, Jones DL, Rousk J. 2013. Bacterial growth and respiration responses uponrewetting dry forest soils: impact of drought-legacy. Soil Biol. Biochem. 57:477–86Gordon H, Haygarth PM, Bardgett RD. 2008. Drying and rewetting effects on soil microbial communitycomposition and nutrient leaching. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40:302–11Grifﬁn DM. 1981. Water potential as a selective factor in the microbial ecology of soils. In Water PotentialRelations in Soil Microbiology , ed. JF Parr, WR Gardner, LF Elliott, pp. 141–51. Madison, WI: Soil Sci.Soc. Am.Gulledge J, Schimel JP. 1998. Moisture control over atmospheric CH 4consumption and CO 2production indiverse Alaskan soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 30(8–9):1127–32Gulledge J, Schimel JP. 2000. Controls on soil carbon dioxide and methane ﬂuxes in a variety of taiga foreststands in interior Alaska. Ecosystems 3:269–82Harris RF. 1981. Effect of water potential on microbial growth and activity. In Water Potential Relations in SoilMicrobiology , ed. JF Parr, WR Gardner, LF Elliott, pp. 23–95. Madison, WI: Am. Soc. Agron.Henry HAL. 2012. Soil extracellular enzyme dynamics in a changing climate. Soil Biol. Biochem. 47:53–59Herron PM, Stark JM, Holt C, Hooker T, Cardon ZG. 2009. Microbial growth efﬁciencies across a soil mois-ture gradient assessed using13C-acetic acid vapor and15N-ammonia gas. Soil Biol. Biochem. 41(6):1262–69Holden PA. 2011. How do the microhabitats framed by soil structure impact soil bacteria and the processesthat they catalyze? In The Architecture and Biology of Soils: Life in Inner Space , ed. K Ritz, I Young, pp. 1–62.Wallingford, UK: CABIHomyak PM, Blankinship JC, Marchus K, Lucero DM, Sickman JO, Schimel JP. 2016. Aridity and plantuptake interact to make dryland soils hotspots for nitric oxide (NO) emissions. PNAS 113(19):E2608–16Homyak PM, Blankinship JC, Slessarev EW, Schaeffer SM, Manzoni S, Schimel JP. 2018. Effects of altereddry-season length and plant inputs on soluble soil carbon. Ecology .I np r e s sHomyak PM, Sickman JO, Miller AE, Melack JM, Meixner T, Schimel JP. 2014. Assessing nitrogen-saturationin a seasonally dry chaparral watershed: limitations of traditional indicators of n-saturation. Ecosystems17(7):1286–1305Inselsbacher E, ¨Ohlund J, J ¨amtga ˚rd S, Huss-Danell K, N ¨asholm T. 2011. The potential of microdialysis tomonitor organic and inorganic nitrogen compounds in soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43(6):1321–32Jones SE, Lennon JT. 2010. Dormancy contributes to the maintenance of microbial diversity. PNAS107(13):5881–86Kakumanu ML, Cantrell CL, Williams MA. 2013. Microbial community response to varying magnitudes ofdesiccation in soil: a test of the osmolyte accumulation hypothesis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 57:644–53www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 429Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Kieft TL, Soroker E, Firestone MK. 1987. Microbial biomass response to a rapid increase in water potentialwhen dry soil is wetted. Soil Biol. Biochem. 19:119–26Killham K, Firestone MK. 1984. Salt stress control of intracellular solutes in Streptomycetes indigenous tosaline soils. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 47(2):301–6Kim D-G, Vargas R, Bond-Lamberty B, Turetsky MR. 2012. Effects of soil rewetting and thawing on soil gasﬂuxes: a review of current literature and suggestions for future research. Biogeosciences 9:2459–83Kleber M, Sollins P, Sutton R. 2007. A conceptual model of organo-mineral interactions in soils: self-assemblyof organic molecular fragments into zonal structures on mineral surfaces. Biogeochemistry 85:9–24Kooyers NJ. 2015. The evolution of drought escape and avoidance in natural herbaceous populations. PlantSci. 234:155–62Landesman WJ, Dighton J. 2010. Response of soil microbial communities and the production of plant-available nitrogen to a two-year rainfall manipulation in the New Jersey Pinelands. Soil Biol. Biochem.42(10):1751–58Lawrence CR, Neff JC, Schimel JP. 2009. Does adding microbial mechanisms of decomposition improve soilorganic matter models? A comparison of four models using data from a pulsed rewetting experiment. SoilBiol. Biochem. 41(9):1923–34Le Bissonnais Y. 1996. Aggregate stability and assessment of soil crustability and erodibility: I. theory andmethodology. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 47(4):425–37Leitner S, Homyak PM, Blankinship JC, Eberwein J, Jenerette GD, et al. 2017. Linking NO and N 2Oemission pulses with the mobilization of mineral and organic N upon rewetting dry soils. Soil Biol.Biochem. 115:461–66Li X, Meixner T, Sickman JO, Miller AE, Schimel JP, Melack JM. 2006. Decadal-scale dynamics of water,carbon and nitrogen in a California chaparral ecosystem: DAYCENT modeling results. Biogeochemistry77(2):217–45Li X, Miller AE, Meixner T, Schimel JP, Melack JM, Sickman JO. 2010. Adding an empirical factor to betterrepresent the rewetting pulse mechanism in a soil biogeochemical model. Geoderma 159(3–4):440–51Liang C, Schimel JP, Jastrow JD. 2017. The importance of anabolism in microbial control over soil carbonstorage. Nat. Microbiol. 2:17105Lin D, Ma W, Jin Z, Wang Y, Huang Q, Cai P. 2016. Interactions of EPS with soil minerals: a combinationstudy by ITC and CLSM. Colloids Surf. B 138:10–16Linn DM, Doran JW. 1984. Effect of water-ﬁlled pore space on carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide productionin tilled and nontilled soils. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 48(6):1267–72Lu H, Liu S, Wang H, Luan J, Schindlbacher A, et al. 2017. Experimental throughfall reduction barely affectssoil carbon dynamics in a warm-temperate oak forest, central China. Sci. Rep. 7:15099Manzoni S, Katul G. 2014. Invariant soil water potential at zero microbial respiration explained by hydrologicaldiscontinuity in dry soils. Geophys. Res. Lett. 41:7151–58Manzoni S, Moyano F, K ¨atterer T, Schimel J. 2016. Modeling coupled enzymatic and solute transport controlson decomposition in drying soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 95:275–87Manzoni S, Schaeffer SM, Katul G, Porporato A, Schimel JP. 2014. A theoretical analysis of microbial eco-physiological and diffusion limitations to carbon cycling in drying soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 73:69–83Manzoni S, Schimel JP, Porporato A. 2012. Responses of soil microbial communities to water stress: resultsfrom a meta-analysis. Ecology 93(4):930–38McCulley RL, Burke IC, Nelson JA, Lauenroth WK, Knapp AK, Kelly EF. 2005. Regional patterns in carboncycling across the Great Plains of North America. Ecosystems 8(1):106–21Meisner A, Leizeaga A, Rousk J, Ba ˚a˚th E. 2017. Partial drying accelerates bacterial growth recovery to rewet-ting. Soil Biol. Biochem. 112:269–76Mikha MM, Rice CW, Milliken GA. 2005. Carbon and nitrogen mineralization as affected by drying andwetting cycles. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37(2):339–47Miller AE, Schimel JP, Meixner T, Sickman JO, Melack JM. 2005. Episodic rewetting enhances carbon andnitrogen release from chaparral soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37(12):2195–2204More TT, Yadav JSS, Yan S, Tyagi RD, Surampalli RY. 2014. Extracellular polymeric substances of bacteriaand their potential environmental applications. J. Environ. Manag. 144:1–25430 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Moyano FE, Manzoni S, Chenu C. 2013. Responses of soil heterotrophic respiration to moisture availability:an exploration of processes and models. Soil Biol. Biochem. 59:72–85Mummey D, Holben W, Six J, Stahl P. 2006. Spatial stratiﬁcation of soil bacterial populations in aggregatesof diverse soils. Microb. Ecol. 51(3):404–11Navarro-Garc ´ıa F, Casermeiro M ´A, Schimel JP. 2012. When structure means conservation: effect of aggregatestructure in controlling microbial responses to rewetting events. Soil Biol. Biochem. 44(1):1–8Nicholson WL, Fajardo-Cavazos P, Rebeil R, Slieman TA, Riesenman, Paul J, et al. 2002. Bacterial endosporesand their signiﬁcance in stress resistance. Antonie van Leeuwenhoek 81:27–32Or D, Smets BF, Wraith JM, Dechesne A, Freidman SP. 2007. Physical constraints affecting bacterial habitatsand activity in unsaturated porous media—a review. Adv. Water Resour. 30:1505–27Orchard VA, Cook FJ. 1983. Relationship between soil respiration and soil moisture. Soil Biol. Biochem.15(4):447–53Papendick RI, Campbell GS. 1981. Theory and measurement of water potential. In Water Potential Relationsin Soil Microbiology , ed. JF Parr, WR Gardner, LF Elliott, pp. 1–22. Madison, WI: Soil Sci. Soc. Am.Parker SS, Schimel JP. 2011. Soil nitrogen availability and transformations differ between the summer andthe growing season in a California grassland. Appl. Soil Ecol. 48(2):185–92Parton WJ, Schimel DS, Cole CV, Ojima DS. 1987. Analysis of factors controlling soil organic matter levelsin Great Plains grasslands. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 51:1173–79Parton WJ, Stewart JWB, Cole CV. 1988. Dynamics of C, N, P and S in grassland soils: a model. Biogeochemistry5(1):109–31Placella SA, Brodie EL, Firestone MK. 2012. Rainfall-induced carbon dioxide pulses result from sequentialresuscitation of phylogenetically clustered microbial groups. PNAS 109(27):10931–36Placella SA, Firestone MK. 2013. Transcriptional response of nitrifying communities to wetting of dry soil.Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 79(10):3294–3302Qualls RG. 2000. Comparison of the behavior of soluble organic and inorganic nutrients in forest soils. For.Ecol. Manag. 138:29–50Saetre P, Stark JM. 2005. Microbial dynamics and carbon and nitrogen cycling following re-wetting of soilsbeneath two semi-arid plant species. Oecologia 142(2):247–60Sardans J, Pe ˜nuelas J, Estiarte M. 2008. Changes in soil enzymes related to C and N cycle and in soil C and Ncontent under prolonged warming and drought in a Mediterranean shrubland. Appl. Soil Ecol. 39:223–35Schaeffer SM, Homyak PM, Boot CM, Roux-Michollet D, Schimel JP. 2017. Soil carbon and nitrogen dy-namics throughout the summer drought in a California annual grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 115:54–62Schimel J, Balser TC, Wallenstein M. 2007. Microbial stress-response physiology and its implications forecosystem function. Ecology 88(6):1386–94Schimel J, Becerra CA, Blankinship J. 2017. Estimating decay dynamics for enzyme activities in soils fromdifferent ecosystems. Soil Biol. Biochem. 114:5–11Schimel JP. 2001. Biogeochemical models: implicit versus explicit microbiology. In Global Biogeochemical Cyclesin the Climate System , ed. E-D Schulze, M Heimann, S Harrison, E Holland, J Lloyd, et al., pp. 177–83.San Diego: AcademicSchimel JP, Bennett J. 2004. Nitrogen mineralization: challenges of a changing paradigm. Ecology 85:591–602Schimel JP, Schaeffer SM. 2012. Microbial control over carbon cycling in soil. Front. Microbiol. 3:348Schimel JP, Wetterstedt JA ˚M, Holden PA, Trumbore SE. 2011. Drying/rewetting cycles mobilize old C fromdeep soils from a California annual grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43(5):1101–3Schmidt MWI, Torn MS, Abiven S, Dittmar T, Guggenberger G, et al. 2011. Persistence of soil organicmatter as an ecosystem property. Nature 478(7367):49–56Seager R, Lis N, Feldman J, Ting M, Williams AP, et al. 2018. Whither the 100th meridian? The once andfuture physical and human geography of America’s arid–humid divide. Part I: The story so far. EarthInteract . 22:5. https://doi.org/10.1175/EI-D-17-0011.1Sherwood S, Fu Q. 2014. A drier future? Science 343:737–39Shi A, Marschner P. 2015. The number of moist days determines respiration in drying and rewetting cycles.Biol. Fertil. Soils 51:33–41www.annualreviews.org •Life in Dry Soils 431Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49CH18_Schimel ARI 26 September 2018 12:41Sierra CA, Trumbore SE, Davidson EA, Vicca S, Janssens I. 2015. Sensitivity of decomposition rates of soilorganic matter with respect to simultaneous changes in temperature and moisture. J. Adv. Model. EarthSyst. 7:335–56Skopp J, Jawson MD, Doran JW. 1990. Steady-state aerobic microbial activity as a function of soil watercontent. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 54:1619–25Smith AP, Bond-Lamberty B, Benscoter BW, Tfaily MM, Hinkle CR, et al. 2017. Shifts in pore connectivityfrom precipitation versus groundwater wetting increases soil carbon loss after drought. Nat. Commun.8:1–11Stark JM, Firestone MK. 1995. Mechanisms for soil moisture effects on activity of nitrifying bacteria. Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 61(1):218–21Stiehl-Braun PA, Hartman AA, Kandeler E, Buchmann N, Niklaus PA. 2011. Interactive effects of droughtand N fertilization on the spatial distribution of methane assimilation in grassland soils. Glob. Change Biol.17:2629–39Sulman BN, Phillips RP, Oishi AC, Shevliakova E, Pacala SW. 2014. Microbe-driven turnover offsets mineral-mediated storage of soil carbon under elevated CO 2.Nat. Clim. Change 4:1099–1102Tecon R, Or D. 2017. Biophysical processes supporting the diversity of microbial life in soil. FEMS Microbiol.Rev.41:599–623Wallenstein MD, Weintraub MN. 2008. Emerging tools for measuring and modeling the in situ activity ofsoil extracellular enzymes. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40:2098–2106Warren CR. 2014. Response of osmolytes in soil to drying and rewetting. Soil Biol. Biochem. 70:22–32Warren CR. 2016. Do microbial osmolytes or extracellular depolymerisation products accumulate as soildries? Soil Biol. Biochem. 98:54–63Williams MA, Xia K. 2009. Characterization of the water soluble soil organic pool following the rewetting ofdry soil in a drought-prone tallgrass prairie. Soil Biol. Biochem. 41(1):21–28Witteveen CFB, Visser J. 1995. Polyol pools in Aspergillus niger. FEMS Microbiol. Lett . 1345:57–62Wolfaardt GM, Lawrence JR, Korber DR. 1999. Function of EPS. In Microbial Extracellular Polymeric Sub-stances: Characterization, Structure and Function , ed. J Wingender, TR Neu, H-C Flemming, pp. 171–200.Berlin: SpringerWood JM. 2015. Bacterial responses to osmotic challenges. J. Gen. Physiol. 145(5):381–88Wu J, Brookes PC. 2005. The proportional mineralisation of microbial biomass and organic matter causedby air-drying and rewetting of a grassland soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37(3):507–15Wu Z, Dijkstra P, Koch GW, Pe ˜nuelas J, Hungate BA. 2011. Responses of terrestrial ecosystems to tempera-ture and precipitation change: a meta-analysis of experimental manipulation. Glob. Change Biol. 17:927–42Xiang S-R, Doyle A, Holden PA, Schimel JP. 2008. Drying and rewetting effects on C and N mineralizationand microbial activity in surface and subsurface California grassland soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40(9):2281–89Yu Z, Wang G, Marschner P. 2014. Drying and rewetting—Effect of frequency of cycles and length of moistperiod on soil respiration and microbial biomass. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 62:132–37432 SchimelAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49_FrontMatter ARI 18 September 2018 17:50Annual Review ofEcology, Evolution,and SystematicsVolume 49, 2018ContentsBehavioral Isolation and Incipient Speciation in BirdsJ. Albert C. Uy, Darren E. Irwin, and Michael S. Webster ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 1The Ecology and Evolution of Alien PlantsMark van Kleunen, Oliver Bossdorf, and Wayne Dawson pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 25Biodiversity and Functional Ecology of Mesophotic Coral ReefsMichael P. Lesser, Marc Slattery, and Curtis D. Mobley ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 49Evolutionary ConﬂictDavid C. Queller and Joan E. Strassmann pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 73Evaluating Model Performance in Evolutionary BiologyJeremy M. Brown and Robert C. Thomson pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 95Plant Secondary Metabolite Diversity and Species InteractionsAndr´ e Kessler and Aino Kalske ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 115Variation and Evolution of Function-Valued TraitsRichard Gomulkiewicz, Joel G. Kingsolver, Patrick A. Carter,and Nancy Heckman ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 139Climate Change and Phenological Mismatch in Trophic InteractionsAmong Plants, Insects, and VertebratesSusanne S. Renner and Constantin M. Zohner pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 165Bivalve Impacts in Freshwater and Marine EcosystemsCaryn C. Vaughn and Timothy J. Hoellein ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 183Uses and Misuses of Environmental DNA in Biodiversity Scienceand ConservationMelania E. Cristescu and Paul D.N. Hebert pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 209Frontiers in Metapopulation Biology: The Legacy of Ilkka HanskiOtso Ovaskainen and Marjo Saastamoinen pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 231Integrating Networks, Phylogenomics, and Population Genomics for theStudy of PolyploidyPaul D. Blischak, Makenzie E. Mabry, Gavin C. Conant, and J. Chris Pires pppppppppp 253Contents vAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. ES49_FrontMatter ARI 18 September 2018 17:50Ecological Response to Permafrost Thaw and Consequences for Localand Global Ecosystem ServicesEdward A.G. Schuur and Michelle C. Mack pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 279(Non)Parallel EvolutionDaniel I. Bolnick, Rowan D.H. Barrett, Krista B. Oke, Diana J. Rennison,and Yoel E. Stuart pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 303Mechanisms of Plastic Rescue in Novel EnvironmentsEmilie C. Snell-Rood, Megan E. Kobiela, Kristin L. Sikkink,and Alexander M. Shephard ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 331Challenging Dogma Concerning Biogeographic Patterns of Antarcticaand the Southern OceanKenneth M. Halanych and Andrew R. Mahon pppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 355Dinosaur Macroevolution and MacroecologyRoger B.J. Benson ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 379Life in Dry Soils: Effects of Drought on Soil Microbial Communitiesand ProcessesJoshua P. Schimel ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 409Using Genomic Data to Infer Historic Population Dynamicsof Nonmodel OrganismsAnnabel C. Beichman, Emilia Huerta-Sanchez, and Kirk E. Lohmueller ppppppppppppppp 433The Contemporary Evolution of FitnessAndrew P. Hendry, Daniel J. Schoen, Matthew E. Wolak, and Jane M. Reid pppppppppp 457The Deep Past Controls the Phylogenetic Structure of Present,Local CommunitiesPille Gerhold, Marcos B. Carlucci, S ¸ erban Proche¸ s, and Andreas Prinzing pppppppppppppp 477Development and Evolutionary Constraints in AnimalsFrietson Galis, Johan A.J. Metz, and Jacques J.M. van Alphen ppppppppppppppppppppppppp 499IndexesCumulative Index of Contributing Authors, Volumes 45–49 ppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 523Cumulative Index of Article Titles, Volumes 45–49 ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 527ErrataAn online log of corrections to Annual Review of Ecology, Evolution, and Systematicsarticles may be found at http://www.annualreviews.org/errata/ecolsysvi ContentsAnnu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 2018.49:409-432. Downloaded from www.annualreviews.org Access provided by National Cheng Kung University on 04/20/23. For personal use only. 