0123456789();: The soil microbiome is the most biologically diverse community in the biosphere, holding at least a quarter of  Earth’s total biodiversity1. Tens of millions of species  of bacteria, archaea, fungi, viruses and microeukaryotes coexist below ground, although only a few hundred thousand have been characterized in detail2. A single gram of surface soil can contain more than 109 bacterial and archaeal cells3, trillions of viruses4, tens of thousands of protists5 and 200 m of fungal hyphae6. In microbial ecology, the taxonomic diversity of a microbial assem-blage and the abundance of its individual members is termed ‘community structure’ . Soil microbiome struc -ture varies widely both across different ecosystems7,8 and smaller- scale soil habitats9, but bacteria and fungi typically dominate soil microbial biomass and diver -sity, with abundances several orders of magnitude higher than other microbial groups10,11. Across Earth’s biomes, soil microbial diversity is positively related to a range of ecosystem functions such as nutrient cycling, decomposition and plant productivity12.Soil microorganisms strongly influence terres-trial biogeochemistry by forming and decomposing soil organic matter (SOM) — the planet’s largest ter -restrial stock of organic carbon and nitrogen, and a primary source of other crucial macronutrients and micronutrients13. By shaping the turnover of SOM, soil microorganisms influence atmospheric concentrations of CO2 and global climate, and help provide crucial eco-system services like soil fertility, carbon sequestration, and plant productivity and health. However, the soil microbiome’s influence on biogeochemistry extends well beyond the metabolic activities of living organisms. After death, microbial necromass  accretes in soil, consti-tuting as much as 50% of the SOM pool14–17. Because soil microbial necromass represents one of the most globally significant pools of carbon and other nutrients, the mechanism and rate of microbial death likely impact terrestrial biogeochemical cycling.An understanding of how microbial life and death shape soil biogeochemistry is now emerging, and Microbial necromassDead cellular biomass  (for example, cell envelopes) and extracellular products  (for example, extracellular polymeric substances).Life and death in the soil microbiome: how ecological processes influence biogeochemistryNoah W. Sokol  1 ✉, Eric Slessarev  1, Gianna L. Marschmann  2, Alexa Nicolas  3, Steven J. Blazewicz  1, Eoin L. Brodie2,4, Mary K. Firestone4, Megan M. Foley  5,6, Rachel Hestrin  1, Bruce A. Hungate  5,6, Benjamin J. Koch  5,6, Bram W. Stone  7, Matthew B. Sullivan  8,9,10, Olivier Zablocki8,9, LLNL Soil Microbiome Consortium*  and Jennifer Pett- Ridge  1,11 ✉Abstract | Soil microorganisms shape global element cycles in life and death. Living soil microorganisms are a major engine of terrestrial biogeochemistry, driving the turnover of  soil organic matter — Earth’s largest terrestrial carbon pool and the primary source of plant nutrients. Their metabolic functions are influenced by ecological interactions with other soil microbial populations, soil fauna and plants, and the surrounding soil environment. Remnants  of dead microbial cells serve as fuel for these biogeochemical engines because their chemical constituents persist as soil organic matter. This non- living microbial biomass accretes over time  in soil, forming one of the largest pools of organic matter on the planet. In this Review, we  discuss how the biogeochemical cycling of organic matter depends on both living and dead  soil microorganisms, their functional traits, and their interactions with the soil matrix and other organisms. With recent omics advances, many of the traits that frame microbial population dynamics and their ecophysiological adaptations can be deciphered directly from assembled genomes or patterns of gene or protein expression. Thus, it is now possible to leverage a trait-  based understanding of microbial life and death within improved biogeochemical models and  to better predict ecosystem functioning under new climate regimes.✉e- mail: sokol1@llnl.gov; pettridge2@llnl.govhttps://doi.org/10.1038/ s41579-022-00695- zNATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4150123456789();: emphasizes the role of microbial population dynam-ics, trophic relationships, microbial interactions with their soil environment, and the causes and conse-quences of microbial mortality. New evidence shows that soil microbiomes are shaped by: (1) microbial population- level processes, such as varied taxon- specific growth and death rates in response to growing roots, decaying litter and environmental perturbations18–20;  (2) microbial community dynamics, such as distinct pat-terns of ecological succession  in different soil habitats21–23; and (3) biotic interactions, such as how different types of competition and predation can influence microbial physiology24 and necromass chemistry25. At the same time, a parallel body of research illuminates how dif-ferent components of microbial necromass, such as cell walls, proteins, DNA and extracellular products, undergo decomposition26,27 and form SOM25,28–31.In this Review, we illustrate how the ecological pro-cesses of living and decaying microorganisms can shape soil biogeochemistry. First, we summarize how the traits of living microorganisms interface with the properties of the soil mineral matrix to affect organic matter cycling and promote accrual of microbial necromass. Next, we describe how community- level processes (for example, succession) and biotic interactions (for example, com-petition and predation) influence how microbial activity and mortality impact SOM. In so doing, we illustrate how different mechanisms of microbial death may yield distinct effects on the formation and persistence of SOM. Finally, we discuss how new trait- based approaches provide a tractable means to incorporate processes of microbial life and death into models that predict soil biogeochemical dynamics.Microbial traits and the mineral matrixThe mineral matrix is a complex and heterogeneous landscape where soil microorganisms interact and express traits that directly shape SOM cycling. It is also the graveyard that houses microbial products after death32. Far more than just a physical substrate for microbial colonies, the mineral matrix facilitates electron transfer and provides crucial elements as well as oxidants and reactive minerals that mediate the trans-formation of microbial necromass into SOM33. Different habitats within this mineral matrix host distinct micro-bial communities that vary in their density, activity and composition, with direct consequences for how organic matter is cycled (Fig.  1).Habitats in the mineral matrix. The soil mineral matrix develops from physical and biochemical weathering as rocks are broken and chemically transformed into successively smaller particles, ranging in size from centimetre- scale stones to nanometre- scale clays. The heterogeneity of this three- dimensional porous architecture generates a wide range of habitats for microorganisms to colonize and inhabit. These habitats include living and dead roots, preferential paths along which water and resources flow, as well as the interior and exterior regions of porous soil aggregates. In much of this mineral matrix, microorganisms are minimally active34 and sparsely distributed; less than 0.000001% of the total surface area in mineral soil may be occu-pied by living microorganisms35. However, in localized, dynamic, resource-  rich habitats of the mineral matrix, such as the rhizosphere , hyphosphere  and detritusphere , carbon and other nutrients are more abundant than in bulk soil36. These resource- rich habitats can constitute a significant portion of surface soil: between 8% and 26% of the total soil volume in the top 10 cm can be occupied by the rhizosphere alone37. Within habitats where roots and fungal hyphae are actively growing or decaying, microbial biomass and activity is 0.5–20 times greater than in the surrounding bulk soil36,37, biotic interactions are more frequent38,39, and microbially driven organic matter transformations are rapid36,40 (Fig.  1).Microbial ecophysiology and SOM cycling. Soil micro-organisms possess a broad range of ecophysiological traits  that can influence how organic matter persists within the mineral matrix41, including cellular chemical com-position, life history and biophysical characteristics, and adaptations to environmental and biotic stress-ors (Table  1). These traits vary across soil habitats as a function of compositional differences in the micro-bial community and their resource environment20,36,42. As previously described43, the term ‘trait’ reflects the phenotypic character of an organism: “any morpho-logical, physiological, or phenological heritable feature measurable at the individual level” . Current microbial trait compilations are biased towards taxa that can be cultured in the laboratory. For instance, the 10 most prevalent soil- dwelling microbial taxa included in a recent trait compilation are bacteria from the genera Burkholderia , Campylobacter  and Bacillus44. These 10 taxa comprise 14% of trait observations compiled from soil, whereas major soil bacterial phyla that are more difficult to culture represent a much smaller frac-tion (for example, Acidobacteria comprise only 0.5%)44. Promisingly, metagenome-  assembled genomes and other omics approaches now enable trait predictions for microorganisms that have yet to be cultivated or visually observed45. Many of the traits described in Table  1 can Author addresses1Physical and life Sciences Directorate, lawrence livermore National laboratory, livermore, CA, uSA.2earth and environmental Sciences, lawrence Berkeley National laboratory, Berkeley, CA, uSA.3Department of Plant and microbial Biology, university of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, uSA.4Department of environmental Science, Policy, and management, university of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, uSA.5Center for ecosystem Science and Society, Northern Arizona university, Flagstaff,  AZ, uSA.6Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona university, Flagstaff, AZ, uSA.7earth and Biological Science Directorate, Pacific Northwest National laboratory, Richland, WA, uSA.8Department of microbiology, ohio State university, Columbus, oH, uSA.9Center of microbiome Science, ohio State university, Columbus, oH, uSA.10Department of Civil, environmental and Geodetic engineering, ohio State university, Columbus, oH, uSA.11life and environmental Sciences Department, university of California merced, merced, CA, uSA.*A list of authors and their affiliations appears at the end of the paper. Ecological successiona consistent, distinct trajectory of community change through time.RhizosphereThe zone of soil under direct influence of a living plant root.HyphosphereThe zone of soil under direct influence of fungal hyphae.DetritusphereThe zone of soil under direct influence of decaying litter.Bulk soilSoil that is not in the direct influence of living or dead roots; characterized by lower levels of microbial density  and activity relative to high- resource habitats.Ecophysiological traitsT raits related to the physiology of a microorganism, as shaped by their biotic and abiotic ecological context.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews416 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: be detected in genomes, either as genome- inferred traits  or via gene or protein expression46–50.Traits related to the composition of cell walls and cellular products may be key in the biogeochemistry of SOM because they affect the composition of microbial necromass. Cell envelope and exudate composition var -ies across microbial groups, with contrasting proportions of peptidoglycan, glycolipids, glycoproteins, compatible solutes, storage compounds, adhesion or stress- tolerance compounds like melanin, exopolysaccharides, and other extracellular products. The presence of different com-pounds can lead to variable decay rates of microbial necromass based on factors like necromass melaniza-tion, stoichiometry and cell morphology27. For exam-ple, in a boreal forest soil, fungal necromass with higher melanin and lower nitrogen content (Meliniomyces bicolor ) decomposed more slowly than necromass with lower melanin and higher nitrogen content (Mortierella elongata )51. Reduced decomposition of melanized fun-gal necromass can lead to its accrual in boreal forests, driving an overall increase in SOM stocks52. Necromass composition can also influence its association with soil minerals and its longer- term persistence as SOM. In a soil chronosequence along a glacier forefield, SOM con-tained an increasing amount of microbial cell envelope fragments as soils developed30 — particularly small- sized (100–500 nm) bacterial membrane and cell wall frag-ments that associate with mineral surfaces32. Interactions between mineral surfaces and the functional groups of cell envelope fragments, such as lipids53, amino sugars31, and proteins54, can increase the persistence of SOM, such as by reducing the wettability of soil minerals54.Microbial traits also affect SOM turnover by medi-ating interactions between microorganisms and minerals55. For instance, traits related to mineral sur -face attachment are likely important to SOM formation. The surface- attached lifestyle of many soil microorgan-isms enables them to withstand severe limitations of water, nutrients and motility56. Often living in biofilms, soil microbial cells are embedded in a hydrated matrix  of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) comprised of polysaccharides, proteins, nucleic acids, lipids and other biopolymers, which together make up 80% of the dry mass of the biofilm57. EPS bind soil minerals together: for instance, microorganisms living in the rhizosphere of the perennial grass Panicum virgatum  generate poly-saccharides that have been linked to the formation of SOM in mineral aggregates58. Microorganisms also con-tribute to mineral dissolution and formation processes: laboratory experiments with soil microbial isolates Rhizosphere Detritusphere Bulk soilLiving plant rootDead plant rootPrimary mineral grainAggregateOrganic matter ﬂowMicrobialnecromassMineral-associated organic matterViral particle Fungal hyphaeRhizodeposit Bacteria Clay particles Protist• Organic matter inputs from living root (rhizodeposits)• Higher microbial biomass and activity • Lower microbial diversity • Fast biomass turnover; high rates of organic matter ﬂow• Increased predation• Organic matter inputs from dead litter• Higher microbial biomass and activity • Higher prevalence of saprotrophic fungi • High rates of organic matter ﬂow• Lower microbial biomass and activity• Higher microbial diversity• Slower biomass turnover and rates of organic matter ﬂowFig. 1 | Composition of the soil microbiome and its role in organic matter cycling in different soil habitats. The biomass and activity of the soil microbiome is greater in the rhizosphere and detritusphere relative to the bulk soil. Organic matter transformations also occur at a faster rate in the rhizosphere and detritusphere relative to the bulk soil, leading to greater accumulation of soil organic matter (for example, mineral- associated organic matter derived from microbial necromass). Arrows indicate flow of organic matter; thicker arrows indicate greater rates of flow.NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4170123456789();: show that mineral- attached biofilms accelerate mineral dissolution56, and imaging of weathered minerals in the field indicates that fungal hyphae can act as nucleation sites for clay minerals and metal- oxide nanoparticles59. The close associations between living microbial cells, extracellular products and reactive mineral surfaces create the conditions for microbial necromass to persist in soil as mineral- associated organic matter30,31,40.Soil microorganisms use secretion systems, extra-cellular enzymes and membrane transporters to bring external resources into their cells — traits that influ-ence growth, mortality and carbon- use efficiency  (CUE). Realized growth rate (the actual net growth rate of a microorganism) and mortality rate determine the degree of microbial biomass turnover in soil, which affects the total standing stock of microbial necromass and SOM. For instance, in a long- term grassland biodiversity experiment, accelerated microbial growth and turno-ver was associated with increased microbial necromass and SOM stocks60. CUE describes the proportion of a cell’s resources converted into microbial biomass relative to the total resources consumed, and is thought to be important for SOM cycling, influencing the amount of necromass produced per unit of substrate consumed61,62. In culture, CUE may be estimated directly from microbial populations undergoing exponential growth. However, in soil, a wide diversity of taxa may be experiencing  population growth or decline at any given time, and car -bon is recycled through the community via the predation and decomposition of necromass and extracellular pro-ducts. Consequently, ‘community- level’ CUE estimates derived from soil are not equivalent to culture-  based CUE estimates63. Nonetheless, community- level CUE is a highly informative index of SOM cycling efficiency: for instance, a direct positive relationship has been observed between CUE and SOM formation in artificial soils, where different carbon substrates were added to SOM- free minerals41. Fungal- dominated communities with greater CUE have been associated with particularly high SOM formation41. Positive relationships between CUE, necromass production and SOM have also been observed in field studies in both agricultural systems64 and grassland soils65. CUE and realized growth rate are ‘emergent’ traits in that they depend on the interaction of many biochemical and ecological processes. For instance, genome- based metabolic models suggest that Table 1 | Microbial ecophysiological traits involved in soil organic matter cyclingTraits Prediction and validationaLife history traitsMinimum generation time Codon usage, rRNA copy number, microscopy, optical densityOptimum growth temperature Amino acid frequencies, microscopy, optical densityBiophysical Genome Assembled genome length, DNA yield per cell, GC contentCell size and shape Genome size to cell size, SEM, light microscopy, FACS (isolates  or Nycodenz)Adhesion and motility Adhesins, holdfast genes; Pilli, flagella genes, microscopy,  capillary assaysCellular compositionCell wall or envelope compositionPolysaccharide, lipid, glycoprotein, pigment or Gram- type genes, lipidomics, FTIR, NMR, HPLC, mass spectrometryEPS or other residues EPSac genes, bulk EPS quantification, FTIR, mass spectrometryResource acquisitionExoenzymes Secreted enzyme genes, activity essays, protein- SIPTransport systems Transporter genesSecretion systems Secretion genes, SEM or TEMMetallophores NRPS siderophore genes, siderophore assays, mass spectrometryStorage materials Phosphoester, phospholipid, polyhydroxybutarate, microscopy, FTIRStress toleranceStress regulation Regulatory genes (sigma factors, anti- sigmas, two- component)Spore formation Sporulation genes, spore stains, bulk quantification, DNA- SIP–dormancyOsmotolerance Osmotic response genes (osmolytes, efflux pumps), viral integrity experiments, mass spectrometry, protein- SIPAntagonism or defenceAntibiotics, toxin–antitoxin systemsBiosynthetic clusters, toxin or antitoxin genes, mass spectrometryEmergent traitsRealized growth rate Genome inferred (iREP46), heavy water DNA- SIP18CUE Genome predicted ranges, quantitative SIP173, isotope tracing, bulk CUEStoichiometric range Genome predictions and allometric scaling, nanoSIMS, bulk measurementsCUE, carbon- use efficiency; EPS, extracellular polymeric substances; EPSac, extracellular polysaccharides; FACS, fluorescence- activated cell sorting; FTIR, Fourier- transform infrared spectroscopy; HPLC, high- performance liquid chromatography; iREP , Index of Replication; nanoSIMS, nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry; NMR, nuclear magnetic resonance; NRPS, non- ribosomal peptide synthetase; SEM, scanning electron microscopy; SIP , stable isotope probing; TEM, transmission electron microscopy. aMany of these traits can be directly measured in genomes and can also be corroborated through bulk characterization or taxon- specific measurements.Mineral- associated organic matterSoil organic matter that exists in some degree of association with soil minerals.Carbon- use efficiency(CUe). Microbial biomass yield given a quantity of available substrate.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews418 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: microorganisms with a larger genome size can produce the enzymes and transporters needed to access a wide variety of carbon substrates but demonstrate lower CUE than taxa with smaller genomes66.To cope with fluctuating resource availability and stress, many microorganisms produce compounds that influence cellular composition and can affect how necro  mass may persist as SOM67. These traits include the production of storage polymers used for energy, carbon, and nutrients such as starch, glycogen, inor -ganic polyphosphates, triacyl glycerides, trehalose, wax esters, cyanophycin and polyhydroxybuturate68,69. The chemistry of different microbial stress compounds may have contrasting effects on their persistence as SOM. For example, in response to grazing by soil isopods (small crustaceans), some saprotrophic soil fungi produce calcium oxalate crystals on their surfaces for physical protection such as the cord- forming basidiomycete fungi Phanerochaete velutina  and Resinicium bicolor25. This stress response increases the recalcitrance of their biomass and affects the proportion retained as SOM25. Other stress and storage compounds, such as trehalose, are readily hydrolysed to simple sugars and mineralized. For instance, dry grassland soils in California can hold microbial biomass that is up to 20% trehalose by mass70, and most of this trehalose can be converted into glu-cose, driving rapid CO2 loss via mineralization but also potentially supporting microbial growth71.When soil conditions become particularly harsh, many microorganisms favour dormancy — broadly defined as a reversible state of reduced metabolic activity72. Entering dormancy, microorganisms allocate significant energy and resources towards the formation of resting structures such as spores. As much as 80% of microbial cells are estimated to be dormant at any given time34, although this value likely varies temporally and spatially (for example, in the rhizosphere versus bulk soil). To the extent that entering dormancy imposes metabolic costs, it might reduce microbial CUE in the short term. However, over the long term, dormant cells both grow and respire less than active cells, so the overall effect of dormancy on CUE and microbial necromass production is unclear63,73. Dormant cells do not pro -duce enzymes, and hence regional model simulations suggest that greater dormancy reduces overall SOM decomposition74. Most insights regarding the effects of microbial dormancy on SOM cycling are entirely theoretical, highlighting the need for new empirical approaches to study dormancy in situ.Microbial necromass in the mineral matrix. In many ecosystems, the majority of SOM appears to be derived from microbial necromass14,15. Living microbial bio-mass typically accounts for less than 5% of total SOM75, and only a small subset of this biomass is active at any given time34. Through iterative cycles of microbial growth, death and turnover, a massive stock of micro-bial necro  mass is generated in soil, which far exceeds living microbial biomass62. This stock accrues into a sig-nificant fraction of SOM, partially via interactions with reactive mineral surfaces, which promote its persistence  in soil30,40.Mineral- associated microbial residues include cellular constituents (for example, cell envelopes)30, microbially derived nitrogenous compounds (amino sugars and nucleic acids)31 and extracellular products (for example, EPS, enzymes and glycoproteins)76. Traits such as peptidoglycan content, cell size and hydropho-bicity also affect the association of cells with minerals28,77. For instance, small- celled, hydrophobic Rhodococcus erythropolis  were retained within soil pores more read-ily than Escherichia coli  after being added to soil col-umns, whereas hydrophilic E. coli  were more readily leached from the mineral matrix77. Mineral identity also matters: distinct minerals associate with different types, sources and amounts of necromass, both because they host distinct living bacterial, fungal, and archaeal communities23,78,79 and because more reactive minerals (for example, amorphous aluminium hydroxide) can sorb necromass more strongly29. Microbial residues may be particularly significant in mildly acidic to mildly alkaline pH soils that are typical of arid climates and grasslands80. Although it is clear that microbially derived SOM is created by complex interactions between micro-bial traits, soil mineralogy and climate, more research is needed to compare SOM formation and persistence in different ecosystem contexts.In sum, soils contain highly diverse microbial com -munities distributed across a complex framework of pores, water films, mineral surfaces and organic matter- rich habitats. Ecophysiological traits of both living and dead microorganisms have a crucial role in shaping soil biogeochemical cycles. In adapting to life in a mineral matrix, soil microorganisms have evolved a surface- attached lifestyle and exhibit distinct life history, stress tolerance, cell composition, resource acquisition and defence traits. These traits control the nature and quantity of microbial cellular residues, generating micro-bially derived SOM that comprises much of the global soil organic carbon and nitrogen reservoir.Microbial population and community processesCommunity assembly , succession, and ecological inter -actions (for example, predation, competition and mutualism ) dictate which microbial taxa are present and how they change through time. These popula-tion and community processes influence SOM dynamics by shaping the set of microbial traits present in the com-munity and by triggering changes in necromass chemis-try by inducing different mechanisms of microbial stress and death18,20,25,81.Microbial succession in a heterogeneous matrix. Soil microbial communities exhibit distinct and reproduc-ible successional trajectories in response to changing conditions. In the rhizosphere, plant roots preferentially stimulate or inhibit specific taxa, resulting in a commu-nity that becomes increasingly distinct from bulk soil and is often less diverse19–21 (Fig.  2). Succession in the rhizosphere is best documented for soil bacteria but also observed for protists82, fungi20 and RNA viruses83. In temperate grasslands, as the rhizosphere bacte-rial community develops along growing plant roots, Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes typically increase in Community assemblyProcesses that shape the identity and abundance of species within a biological community.Mutualisma form of symbiosis where both partners benefit.NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4190123456789();: abundance, whereas Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and Planctomycetes decline19–21. Rhizosphere commu-nity networks also become larger and more complex than those in bulk soil through time, suggesting that microbial interactions strongly influence community assembly84,85.Successional trajectories in the rhizosphere are associated with shifts in microbial functional traits. For example, in a sandy dune soil in the Netherlands, bacteria in the rhizosphere possessed a greater abun-dance of functional genes related to transporters, glyco-lysis and hydrogen metabolism relative to the bulk soil community85. Many of these functional traits may affect SOM cycling — in particular, the expression of traits driven by organic inputs from growing roots. In the developing rhizosphere of wild oat grass (Avena  spp.), microorganisms capable of using low molecular weight compounds increase in abundance relative to bulk soil86. This shift in the functional potential of the rhizosphere community, evidenced by a higher abundance of genes for organic acid and amino acid transporters, occurred in response to the changing amount and type of car -bon that flowed through the rhizosphere19,20,86,87. As this functional shift occurs over the growing season, new microbially derived SOM is formed in the rhizos-phere, although only a subset of this SOM may persist through time40,87.Succession in the detritusphere begins with fast-  growing microorganisms, such as taxa in the phyla Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes, that rapidly con-sume water-  soluble compounds and simple carbohy -drates that are released into soil early in decomposition. This is followed by a second wave of slower- growing microorganisms that consume more complex com-pounds contained within litter such as Basidiomycota fungal taxa, Actinobacteria and Deltaproteobacteria22. In the detritusphere of rye (Secale cereale ), these com-munity shifts were associated with changes in the rate of SOM accumulation over several months. SOM for -mation was most pronounced early in decomposition and progressively slowed88. Similar successional shifts also occur on soil mineral surfaces — a microhabitat known as the ‘mineralosphere’23,78,79. Fast- growing fungi and Betaproteobacteria that are the first colonizers of mineral surfaces can rapidly contribute necromass that forms mineral- associated SOM23,79. Secondary colonizers tend to be slower- growing and adapted to nutrient- poor conditions (for example, Chloroflexi, Verrucomicrobia and Gemmatimonadetes); these microorganisms may feed on the initial necromass, decelerating its accrual and altering the chemical composition of the resulting microbially derived SOM79.Biotic interactions: predation, competition and mutu-alisms. Biotic interactions, such as predation, mutual-ism and competition (Fig.  3a), are important forces that shape soil microbial community structure and SOM biogeochemistry89. The heterogeneity of the mineral matrix limits interactions between microorganisms by increasing physical separation, limiting motility and decreasing hydrological connectivity3,35,90. Limited com-petition may be one of the main forces maintaining the incredibly high diversity (for example, tens of thousands of taxa in a gram of soil91) but low density of microbial life in bulk mineral soils3,92,93. This is visually apparent in thin soil sections, where clusters of tens to hundreds of bacterial cells are widely dispersed, especially in bulk soils and deeper soil depths93. Where resource availa-bility is higher (for example, the rhizosphere compared with the bulk soil, or surface soil compared with deep soil), microbial density increases37,94 and the influence of density - dependent  processes, such as competition38,85,95 Increasing microbial biomass, network complexity, new SOM formationDecreasing microbial diversityRhizosphereWeek 0 Week 3Bulk soil Rhizosphere RhizosphereWeek 6 Week 12Fig. 2 | Microbial succession and organic matter formation in the rhizosphere. During the growing season of an annual plant, as a rhizosphere community develops, its diversity often decreases relative to the bulk soil, even while its biomass and network complexity increases. Simultaneously, new soil organic matter (SOM) is formed in the rhizosphere, although only a subset of it may persist. Adapted with permission from reF.84, Wiley.Density- dependenta process that regulates population size based on population density.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews420 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: and predation on microbial communities and SOM cycling, may be more apparent89,96 (Fig.  3b).Soil predators span scales, trophic levels and taxo -nomic domains, ranging in size from large microarthro-pods (for example, mites and springtails) to nematodes, protists, predatory bacteria (for example, Bdellovibrio  spp.) and nanoscopic viruses. Predators can feed selec-tively or non- selectively, with distinct effects on micro-bial community structure and SOM cycling97. Many bacterivorous nematodes are generalists and consume bacteria taxa indiscriminately via filter feeding. By con-trast, bacterivorous protists are more selective, favouring Gram- negative bacteria, which are easier to digest97. This selectivity can promote the abundance of Gram- positive bacteria97, which preferentially consume SOM over plant inputs, potentially leading to enhanced SOM decomposition98.Predatory bacteria, although less well studied than other soil predators, cause widespread effects on food web structure99 and carbon and nutrient flows100. Predatory bacteria are highly active in soil and their activity rates increase with resource supply to the base of  the foodweb100. For example, experimental additions of carbon substrates to soil stimulated growth rates of the obligate predatory bacteria Bdellovibrionales and Vampirovibrionales, with growth responses more than 60% larger than those of non- predatory bacteria75. This suggests that, in soil microbiomes with higher produc-tivity, there is increased predator control of lower trophic levels, influencing carbon flow through the belowground food web.Soil viruses, which can be highly host specific, trans-form the cell biomass of their prey into extracellularized organic compounds in the process of producing virions (for example, nucleotides and proteins) and lysing the contents of their host cell. Highly diverse and abun-dant, soil viruses may outnumber microbial cells by as much as 100 to 1 (box  1). In oceans, viruses have a prominent role in organic matter cycling, killing up to ~40% of bacteria daily and sustaining up to 55% of bacterial production by continuously liberating and remineralizing dissolved organic matter — a phenom-enon known as ‘the viral shunt ’101. Similarly, soil viruses may drive a terrestrial viral shunt, and consequently the cycling of SOM, by disseminating microbial necromass, altering host cell metabolism and CUE, and shaping the pools of organic matter that interact with soil minerals. Resolving how boom and bust cycles of viruses contri-bute to microbial succession and SOM cycling is a major ongoing area of research83,102 (box  1).Many soil mutualisms influence SOM dynamics, either by enhancing new SOM production or accelerat-ing decomposition. Soil biofilms are known hotspots of microbial mutualisms and may be comprised of multiple soil bacteria living in highly productive consortia103. The synergistic effect of these multispecies interactions has been linked to enhanced syntrophy, stress resistance104 and biomass production103. In a comparison of 35 com-binations of multispecies biofilm consortia versus single- species biofilms, greater biomass production was observed in over 60% of the consortia compared with the single- species biofilms103. Greater biomass produc-tion may promote more SOM formation derived from biofilm EPS58,105.Mutualisms between plants and mycorrhizal fungi can also affect SOM production and decomposition106. Density dependenceDensity dependenceOABAntagonistic competitiona Types of biotic interaction b Axes of density-dependent    processes in soil proﬁlePredationResource competitionViral lysisProtistExoenzymesMutualismFig. 3 | Biotic interactions and density- dependent processes in the soil profile. a | Primary types of biotic interaction  in the soil microbiome, which shape microbial community structure and organic matter cycling. Interactions include antagonistic competition (combative interactions for resources), exploitative competition (indirect competition for resources), mutualisms (for example, interactions between mycorrhizal fungi and plant roots) and predation (for example, protists consuming bacteria or viral lysis). These interactions influence how organisms allocate carbon and can shape  the chemical composition and flow of organic matter. b | As microbial density decreases with depth or with increasing distance from the rhizosphere (or other resource- rich area), there is also a decrease in density- dependent processes  (for example, predation) along these same axes and their effects on organic matter cycling. Shown is a soil profile with  an organic layer (O horizon), top layer of mineral soil (A horizon) and mineral subsoil (B horizon).Viral shuntThe theory that viral lysis  of microbial cells returns  labile organic matter to  an available pool.NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4210123456789();: Plants allocate up to 30% of photosynthetically fixed car -bon to their mycorrhizal symbionts107 and this transfer fuels hyphal biomass production and growth of other nearby microorganisms108. There are two dominant mycorrhizal fungal types with different abilities to scav-enge nutrients within SOM: ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungi produce enzymes that directly oxidize SOM109, whereas arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi rely on saprotrophs to perform this function110,111. Relative to ECM- dominated ecosystems, AM- dominated eco-systems are associated with faster litter decomposi-tion and nutrient cycling, which can lead to distinct effects on SOM112. Although there may be greater topsoil SOM in ECM- dominated ecosystems due to slower SOM cycling113, the higher rates of microbial necromass production in AM- dominated ecosystems can lead to enhanced formation of more persistent, mineral- associated organic matter114. For instance, in a gradient of AM- dominated versus ECM- dominated temperate forest sites, there was more SOM in the upper 10 cm of the ECM- dominated soil but more mineral- associated organic matter and total SOM in the AM- dominated soil at a depth of 1 m (reF.114).Fungal necromass — from mycorrhizae and other fungi that associate with plant roots — may be an impor -tant direct source of SOM because the high surface area and small diameter of hyphae allow them to access areas that roots cannot reach such as small soil pores and the interior of soil aggregates106. Although quantitative esti-mates are sparse, available data suggest that, in the top 30 cm of soil, there is an average of 102,000 cm of total fungal hyphae per cubic centimetre of soil, compared with an average of only 6.8 cm of fine roots per cubic centimetre of soil115. As hyphae grow and die, their necromass can form SOM as it associates with plant root tannins (that is, tannin–necromass complexes)116, aggregate structures or mineral surfaces15,117. Indeed, the majority of microbially derived SOM may be from fungal necromass in some ecosystems15, although the  specific proportion contributed by mycorrhizal fungi versus saprotrophic fungi remains unquantified.Two other types of biotic interaction in soil — exploitative competition  and antagonistic competition  — likely vary in importance in different soil habitats and soil depths, and have contrasting effects on SOM cycling36,95,118. Bacterial–fungal antagonistic interactions are pervasive in organic horizons and upper mineral soils, where antibiotic resistance genes are common among bacteria and are used as a strategy to counteract antimicrobial compounds produced by fungi7. Overall, antagonistic competition may be more common in hab-itats where high densities of microbial cells physically encounter one another (for example, litter layer, decay -ing wood and organic horizons), whereas exploitative competition is thought to be more prevalent in hetero-geneous environments like the bulk mineral soil, where lower densities of microorganisms compete for resources and have lower probability of direct encounters90,95,118.Antagonistic competition can reduce microbial CUE because carbon is allocated to combat or defence traits as opposed to growth. Combative, interspecific interac-tions among wood-  decay Basidiomycete fungi in soil microcosms, for example, reduced community- level CUE by up to 25%24. As a result, in soil habitats where antagonistic interactions are dominant, reduced CUE may decrease the proportion of plant carbon that is transformed into microbially derived SOM. By contrast, in areas of the mineral soil where exploitative compe-tition predominates and microbial diversity is greater, CUE may be relatively high119,120, leading to more effi-cient formation of microbially derived SOM61. However, the relationship between different forms of competi-tion and organic matter cycling remains a key area of inquiry. For example, competition between mycorrhizal fungi and saprotrophs may inhibit SOM decomposition (known as ‘the Gadgil effect’) but the relative importance Box 1 | The soil virome: composition and ecological functionsviral diversity and abundance are staggering, with an estimated ~1031 viruses globally and 106–1010 viral particles per gram of soil4. Reports characterizing soil viruses are rapidly expanding, including in forests, permafrost, agricultural soils, wetlands and deserts. These viruses range in size from ~10–100 nm to nearly bacteria- sized giant eukaryotic viruses186 and include double- stranded DNA viruses that mostly infect bacteria (bacteriophages (phages)) but also archaea and eukaryotes as well as RNA viruses that predominantly infect eukaryotes, particularly plants and fungi.viral community composition can be characterized by several culture- independent approaches, including ‘viromics’, the sequencing of viral- like particles isolated from  the soil matrix via filtration or centrifugation187, or ‘viral metagenomics’, where nucleic acids of viruses are distinguished within a full microbiome sequence dataset by detecting marker genes, viral hallmark genes and viral motifs188. Soil RNA viruses may be detected and characterized by metatranscriptomic approaches that target total RNA83. These techniques indicate that soil viromes have an extraordinarily diverse composition but much remains unknown about the soil virome ecological role and function189, and viruses represent a vast reservoir of hypothetical and uncharacterized proteins190.The heterogeneity and complexity of soil constrains the distribution and activity of soil viruses in unique ways. Both abiotic and biotic factors, including pH, water content, depth, bacterial abundance and soil type, strongly impact virus abundance, virion persistence, life cycles (that is, strictly lytic or temperate) and infectivity in soils4. Although phages often require cell lysis to propagate (that is, the lytic pathway), environmental conditions may induce lysogeny, where a phage genome integrates into its host chromosome or stably co- exists separately inside the cell. Growing evidence suggest lysogeny is prevalent in soil viruses191, but to what extent phages may switch between lytic and lysogenic modalities in soil is unknown.In soil, viruses likely impact microbial community structure and biogeochemistry  via (1) cell lysis, which impacts microbial community composition and shapes the pools of labile organic carbon and nutrients that may interact with soil minerals; and (2) host metabolism takeover accompanied by host- mediated expression of virus- encoded auxiliary metabolic genes (AmGs)192. AmGs are host genes thought to boost virus replication by maximizing cell resource acquisition and may be acquired through horizontal gene transfer. During infections, viruses fundamentally reprogramme their host’s metabolism, which can alter their host cell’s biochemical composition as infection proceeds within a virus- infected cell193, 194. In soils, AmGs are also known to have a role in polysaccharide degradation102 and sporulation genes195, sulfur metabolism, ammonia oxidation, dehalogenation, and chitin degradation.By preferentially preying on certain microbial lineages, viruses may hone community composition and biogeochemical function. For example, a recent study in biological soil crusts showed a bloom in Firmicutes was followed by an increase in Firmicutes- targeting phages195. However, testing soil viral–host ecological hypotheses in situ remains a major challenge. Stable isotope probing (SIP) studies have directly implicated soil viruses in carbon cycling through linking isotopically enriched viruses to hosts  using CRISPR spacers in plant pathogens and plant growth- promoting bacteria in the rhizosphere175, in arctic peat soils196, and with diverse methanotrophs involved in soil methane metabolism197. In addition to SIP , methods such as bioorthogonal non- canonical amino acid tagging (BoNCAT), nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (nanoSImS), phageFISH and virocell- FISH targeting suggest that it is possible to simultaneously link viruses and hosts to carbon flow189.Exploitative competitionindirect competition for resources.Antagonistic competitionDirect competition involving combative interactions.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews422 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: of different types of competition that underlie this phenomenon remain unresolved121.Additional biotic interactions in soil remain uncate-gorized such as those of candidate phyla radiation (CPR) bacteria — ultrasmall bacteria that may act as either bac-terial parasites or episymbionts122. CPR bacteria, such as Saccharibacteria  spp., which recycle DNA from their hosts, have incomplete pathways for amino acid and lipid biosynthesis and have been associated with bac-terial hosts that live off plant root exudates in grassland soils123. In nutrient- depleted environments, CPR bac-teria may have an essential role in recycling nutrients and microbial biomass from dead community members, potentially having an important but unexplored role in SOM recycling.Mechanisms of microbial mortality and SOM cycling. Soil microorganisms die in many ways: via grazing, bac-terial predation, viral lysis, osmolysis, desiccation and allelopathy. These mechanisms of microbial mortality may have distinct effects on the structure and function of soil microbiomes124, cause compositional differences in microbial necromass, and have cascading effects on SOM cycling (Fig.  4). In the ocean, for example, micro-bial death by viral infection versus protozoan grazing has been linked to distinct changes to microbial community structure125, necromass chemistry126 and trophic path-ways of carbon flux101. In soil, however, links between the modes of microbial mortality and biogeochemi-cal cycling remain largely unexplored. Characterizing these links may be crucial for the accurate prediction of short-term and long- term SOM dynamics18,81.Death by predation versus viral lysis should cause notably different effects on the fate of microbial necro-mass. Microbial grazing by a larger predator, such as a protist, will shift microbial necromass into a higher trophic level, tying the fate of this organic matter to the ultimate fate of the predator. This may reduce SOM accumulation by mineralizing a portion of the organic carbon contained in the prey via the inefficiencies of trophic transfer127. Additionally, because protists and nem-atodes possess a wider C:N ratio than the prey they con-sume, they excrete excess nitrogen as a waste product, which is then used by plants and other microorganisms via the ‘microbial loop ’128. Bacterial epibiotic predators lyse cells and consume their cytoplasm129, leaving behind necromass primarily composed of cell membranes and cell wall structures. By contrast, viral lysis may liberate more organic matter than bacterial predation, releasing not only cell membranes and cell walls but also cyto-plasm and phosphate- rich phage particles101. Although much of this lysed material may be relatively accessible as dissolved organic matter, extracellular virions could constitute an important precursor of mineral- associated organic matter.Abiotic mechanisms of death, such as osmolysis or desiccation, may drive a parallel set of contrasting effects to these biotic mechanisms. Abrupt environmental changes to the soil environment, such as rapid changes in soil water potential, cause massive microbial die- off and substantial releases of CO2 — a phenomenon known as ‘the birch effect ’ . In Mediterranean grasslands, 50% of soil bacteria and 25% of fungi can die within hours following the first precipitation after the long summer dry season81. In temperate forests, up to 5–10% of the annual ecosystem carbon budget can be released as CO2 after a single rainfall event130. A sizeable portion of the CO2 pulse observed after wet- up in grasslands could be derived from osmolysis and the subsequent mineralization of the liberated organic matter within microbial cells81. Desiccation, by contrast, may affect soil SOM pools by elevating EPS production, which many microorganisms produce as a response to severe moisture limitation, potentially enhancing cellular T rophic transferThe transfer of energy between trophic levels.Microbial loopThe flux of nutrients, energy and organic matter within microbial communities.Birch effectThe ephemeral pulse of Co2 following wetting of dry soil.DesiccationOsmotic shock Chemical warfareStreptomycesGrazing predationStreptomycinBacterial predationBacteriovoreViral lysisH2OPhageProtistFig. 4 | Mechanisms of microbial mortality and theorized effects on the fate of microbial necromass. There are different ways for a microorganism to die in soil, including grazing, bacterial predation, viral lysis, osmotic shock, desiccation and chemical warfare. The mechanism of death may affect the fate of its necromass, with direct consequences for organic matter cycling.NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4230123456789();: adhesion to mineral surfaces and increasing the for -mation of mineral- associated SOM131. Finally, chemical warfare is common among soil microorganisms7. The mechanisms of allelopathy are diverse, and its conse-quences may mimic other modes of death, including lysis, desiccation or altered biochemistry of cellular structures132. Future research should discern the relative importance of different mechanisms of mortality on the soil microbiome and SOM cycling, and how the rates and dominant mechanisms of death may vary within different soil habitats.In sum, population and community processes in the soil microbiome (for example, succession, assembly and biotic interactions) can affect the dominant functional traits present in a community, with direct consequences for SOM cycling. Different mechanisms of microbial death may affect the composition and fate of micro -bial necromass, influencing its persistence in soil.  It follows that microbial activity, ecological interactions, and the speed and mode of microbial death are poten-tially key variables for biogeochemical models that aim to predict SOM dynamics.Incorporating life and death into biogeochemical modelsBiogeochemical models can be used to study the fate of carbon and other elements at many scales. At the global scale, models are particularly crucial for simulating the carbon cycle in order to forecast climate and related Earth system processes133. Most global scale biogeo-chemical models do not resolve microbial population dynamics explicitly but instead simulate the flow of car -bon between pools of SOM, where each pool is defined by an intrinsic empirically derived decomposition rate134. More complex models that explicitly resolve microbial population growth can incorporate results of field and laboratory incubations at the ecosystem scale135 or mech -anistically simulate interactions between physiologically distinct microbial functional types and their conse-quences for SOM formation136. Fine- scale biogeochem-ical models can test the relevance of microbial processes at smaller scales137,138, link across scales and inform larger scale models via process representations that capture underlying microbial community dynamics139.Below, we review current approaches and challenges to incorporating microbial processes into biogeo-chemical models. We specifically highlight trait- based approaches that have gained traction in microbial ecology as a means to synthesize the complexity of microorganisms140. These trait- based representations of the soil microbiome are a promising approach to extend current modelling approaches across scales.Including microbial processes in biogeochemical models. Microbially explicit biogeochemical models  have widely dif-ferent structures but nearly all track the flows and mass balance of carbon and other elements between compart-ments that represent SOM and microbial biomass134. The most coarse-  scale microbially explicit models include total microbial biomass as a single compartment141 but more detailed models simulate populations of func-tional groups142 and the energy allocation of individual microbial cells143. Models also differ in their charac-teristic timescale, some capture short- term microbial physiological stress responses, such as during soil drying and rewetting events144, whereas others predict temperature- dependent adaption of community CUE145, drought- legacy effects on community function146, or consequences for long- term changes in soil carbon stocks147. In addition to bulk soil representations, some models aim to capture carbon pathways in distinct spa-tial habitats such as in the litter layer137,138, rhizosphere148 and individual soil aggregates139.Irrespective of scale, microbially explicit models can be used to deepen our understanding of how microbial physiology and community composition shape SOM dynamics and responses to environmental change149. For instance, microbially explicit models can be used to explore the influence of abiotic variables on microbial processes. These include dispersal rates in the soil min-eral matrix150, soil moisture effects on diffusion- limited substrate uptake151, soil moisture response functions for microbial dormancy152, EPS and osmolyte production153, or effects of temperature on carbon uptake rates145. Major research efforts have been devoted to constraining environmental response functions with data from soil incubations154,155 but many uncertainties remain unre-solved, including the coupling of combined temperature and moisture effects on microbial process rates151, 156. There have also been efforts to consider variation in microbial community structure that may regulate eco-system process rates, treating the microbial biomass as a set of interacting model compartments. These efforts have mostly been focused on exploitative competition for resources, simulating spatial interactions between resource availability and decomposer metabolic traits157, or focusing on social dynamics within decom-poser communities158. Only recently have microbially explicit models begun to address ecological processes at the popu  lation level89,96; relatively few existing mod-els represent density- dependent resource losses such as mortality rates and predator- mediated competition147,159. In general, microbial models that represent community structure suggest that emergent carbon processing rates (that is, rates averaged across the community) are distinct from rates predicted for more homogeneous communities129. This suggests that the modelling of changes in microbial community structure is relevant for predicting changes in soil carbon stocks.Incorporating microorganisms into global-  scale models affects the magnitude of projected responses of soil carbon stocks to global warming, selectively improv-ing model projections of SOM160. Y et, multi- model com-parisons reveal that microbially explicit models yield drastically different predictions depending on which processes they represent161. In addition, key parameters, including microbial growth and mortality rates135,161, are often essentially unknown.The representation of soil microorganisms in SOM modelling is thus poised at a threshold: exploratory efforts have established the importance of microbial processes at a conceptual level, but the complexity of microbial ecology and the challenges of in situ meas -urements makes it difficult to design and parameterize Microbially explicit biogeochemical modelsModels that represent the amount of microbial biomass as a dynamic variable that mediates biogeochemical transformation rates.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews424 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: biogeochemical models162. Trait- based models represent one promising path forward.Trait- based approaches to biogeochemical modelling. Efforts to incorporate microbial community proper -ties into soil biogeochemical models share a common approach: they group microbial taxa into functional groups based on traits or life history strategies. Similar to community- wide efforts for plants and other organisms, many trait records have been compiled for microorgan-isms that can be cultured in the laboratory44. However, many soil microorganisms are difficult to cultivate and thus trait inference  is required. Using genomes and other omics approaches, trait predictions can theoretically be made for the majority of soil microorganisms that have yet to be cultivated45. Trait inference can range from detection of simple traits, such as genes that encode key enzymes in metabolic processes, to identification of complex traits that require the coordination of multi-ple metabolic and biophysical features163. Organisms that specialize in soils with distinct resource availabil -ity, pH or temperature regimes may have genome- wide signatures that can be used to infer both traits and the organisms’ preferred ecological niche20,86,164.The task of parametrizing traits in biogeochem-ical models is aided by the fact that physiological trade- offs constrain microbial fitness and, hence, trait distributions140. Owing to fundamental thermody -namic limitations, trade- offs are found across all levels of biological organization from molecules to ecosystems. These trait trade- offs can be represented in terms of energy and resources: the benefit and cost to an organism of each trait in space and time. Models that account for biophysical constraints can represent trait relationships continuously rather than relying on fixed categories165. Trade- offs due to cell size are a key example: surface area and volume scale with a 2/3 exponent power law, meaning that the greater surface area- to- volume ratio of smaller cells allows for a comparatively higher substrate uptake affinity166, but the proportionally lower cell vol-ume limits protein translation167,168. As has been found in marine systems, this trade- off results in an ecological strategy where fitness of smaller cells is greater under lower resource concentrations169. Together with these biophysical traits, trade- offs related to substrate acqui-sition, energy generation, stress tolerance and defence define the ecological niche of soil microorganisms in life11,170 and, ultimately, in death. The mortality rate of microorganisms in soil depends on traits such as growth rate, cell wall composition, production of osmolytes and storage compounds, antimicrobials, and the formation of biofilms and other sessile structures. Because the kinetics of microbial death translate into kinetics of sub-strate supply for neighbouring microorganisms or min-erals, the rate of death of a microorganism in soil must be accurately represented in soil biogeochemical models.Whereas major advances have been made in measur -ing microbial functional traits and generating large- scale datasets, data- model integration has lagged behind140. This is exemplified by current implementations of trait- based soil biogeochemical models that, at most, distinguish three functional groups based on a limited number of ‘functional traits’ . For instance, beyond copi-otroph or oligotroph (r- K) representations of life his-tory strategies136, individual- based microbial models simulate interactions between plant polymer degraders, microbial necromass degraders and opportunists138, or opportunists, decomposers and miners (lignin degraders)142. Trait distributions have been predom -inantly identified through physiological studies (for example, enzyme, substrate uptake or growth kinetics, cell surface area, biomass stoichiometry, composition of storage pools, etc.) or through trait combinations that are constrained by pre- imposed trade- offs145. Clearly, the complexity of the soil microbiome renders these approaches unscalable. However, a key recent advance is the ability to reconstruct whole genomes from com-plex communities. The genome- centric view allows inferred traits to be linked within organisms and pat-terns of trait- covariance to be assessed and generalized in order to reduce the dimensionality of trait diversity. This allows microbial functional traits to be represented probabilistically. Because such omics data represents the potential of organisms and not realized phenotypes, validating genotype to phenotype linkages in vitro and in situ is important. By using statistically grounded approaches to reduce dimensionality and quantify information loss as microbial traits are aggregated, it is possible to connect omics data with a hierarchy of model structural complexities (box  2).In sum, efforts to incorporate the spectacular diver -sity of traits present in soil microbiomes into soil biogeo-chemical models and to represent microbiome variation among systems and in system- specific responses to changing environmental conditions, all require further development. A well-  designed trait-  based model-ling approach may help to resolve the challenges of specifying and parametrizing microbially explicit models and to unlock their predictive power. Linking genome-  scale data with biogeochemical process meas -urements can reveal the structural relationships that are hidden when only one type of data is considered, providing a data- driven foundation for building micro-bial ecology into biogeochemical models. This will need robust transdisciplinary science that coordinates model development, omics measurements and biogeo-chemical process measurements within a single iterative framework. We expect that this type of transdisciplinary coordination will ultimately accelerate model struc-tural convergence and achieve more robust forecasts of global- scale soil biogeochemistry.ConclusionsIn recent decades, soil microbiology research has started to resolve the taxonomic and functional diversity of wild soil microbiomes11. A growing emphasis has now begun to unpack the ecological processes that shape this diver -sity. This maturing ecological understanding of the soil microbiome has the potential to advance biogeochem-ical predictions but needs to become fully quantitative. Soils are renowned for their complexity — thus, quanti-tative efforts are most useful when they can simplify and aggregate essential microbial traits into tractable model parameters. Some continuous trait parameters can be T rait inferenceindirect trait quantification based on genomic data, as opposed to direct observation of microbial trait.NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4250123456789();: included directly in models (for example, maximum spe-cific growth rate171 and optimal growth temperature172), whereas others require an additional translation step before they may be represented in models (for exam-ple, acquisition of chemical classes of substrates via transporters or through extracellular breakdown, and binary trait parameters like the presence or absence of a functional capacity) (box  2). Key among emerging techniques are those that can measure microbial growth, death and trophic interactions within the complex soil environment18,173– 175.Multiple techniques now enable a quantitative pathway  for integrating genome- informed and omics- informed data into modelling and synthesis efforts. A range of different tracer approaches has been used to determine growth and turnover of the whole bacterial and fun-gal community in situ (for example, incorporation of radioactive thymidine into soil bacteria, or acetate into ergosterol)176. In addition, taxon- specific approaches can capture growth and mortality rates of individual taxa within complex soil environments. These tech-niques include both non- tracer approaches (for example, iRep46) and tracer approaches like quantitative stable iso-tope probing (qSIP) and bioorthogonal non- canonical amino acid tagging combined with fluorescently active cell sorting (BONCAT–FACS)173, 174. By tracking the Box 2 | Iterative workflow for trait- based model developmentA key challenge to scaling from the diverse microorganisms in soils  to ecosystem function is identifying microbial traits that underlie biogeochemical processes. Trait- based models can integrate trait information that is observed as a phenotype (for example, growth rates, microbial substrate uptake, substrate assimilation efficiency and maintenance rates), inferred from genomic proxies directly (for example, minimum generation times and optimal growth temperatures), or via model synthesis. For example, when combined with allometric scaling  laws and biophysical modelling approaches, emergent processes like carbon- use efficiency, respiration and microbial biomass turnover can  be predicted at the population and community levels. This integration  of theory and observations via models is key to understanding the importance of traits for the fitness and activity of soil microorganisms.  The variance in trait predictions within and between microorganisms can be used to assign organisms or genomes to ‘guilds’ (for example, groups of genomes with shared metabolic traits). Although these organisms might be expected to perform a similar range of functions, variance in other traits (such as cell size or generation times) may help to identify guild members with distinct life history strategies that occupy distinct niches. Trait- based model simulations allow us to explore these multi- variate strategies in terms of the shape of trade- offs and trait variation at population or community level, and understand how the fundamental niche becomes  the realized niche in a dynamic physical and chemical environment.Trait- based models rely on a functional trait matrix (genomes × traits)  to represent an environment, which may include both binary and continuous microbial trait variables (example workflows to extract microbial fitness traits from genome sequences include microTrait and DRAm45 (Distilled and Refined Annotation of metabolism)). Traits  related to biotic interactions, such as virus–host associations, may also  be included in the functional trait matrix (for example, using the iv irus suite of viromic tools and datasets198). once a matrix of genomes and inferred traits has been built, functional guilds are defined based on the percent of inter- genome trait variance explained. This process provides a statistically grounded approach to reduce the dimensionality of the trait space that is represented in the model. Through trait- based model simulations informed by environmental characterization, realized  niches may be predicted, providing hypotheses that can be tested experimentally in an iterative manner that challenges and improves model accuracy.To connect theoretical relationships between genes, genomes, traits, environment and biogeochemical processes, model benchmarking is a critical step. models provide predictions at the population and community scale but these need to be benchmarked against observations. For example, taxon- specific microbial growth and mortality rates can now  be estimated in situ using quantitative stable isotope probing (qSIP) for thousands of interacting populations within a soil sample and can be condensed into guild- level statistics to compare against model predictions. Similarly, observations of biogeochemical fluxes provide additional objectives with which to evaluate model accuracy. This process is iterative, where both the guild definitions (model structure) and the trait values (model parameters) can be varied until satisfactory agreement between model predictions and observations are achieved, providing additional model- derived hypotheses to confirm with appropriately designed experiments.In situ quantiﬁcation of traits, for example, throughqSIPTraits and trait linkagesFunctional trait matrixTrait inference from genomesHypotheses about the role of organismsHost association matrixSpecies HostsTrait-based model simulationsEmergent community composition and function0Model representation of guildsGenome-derived guild deﬁnitionsGenome-speciﬁc parameter distributions  Genotype to phenotype mappingLinking taxa to ecosystem ﬂuxesHabitat ﬁlteringValidationOptimizationTraitsVirusesBoundary conditionsTranslationEnvironment characterizationPhysical and chemical environmentBiological distributionWithin and betweenguild varianceDensityDNA concentrationwww.nature.com/nrmicroReviews426 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: uptake of elements directly into individual taxa through time, these tracer approaches not only provide insight into ecological processes (for example, succession and trophic interactions100, 175, 177) but can directly connect population dynamics with biogeochemical fluxes (for example, organic matter decomposition and minerali-zation)18,178. After death, techniques exploiting various microbial biomarkers, such as lipidomics179, 13C- labelled amino sugar analysis180 and measurements of extracel-lular DNA181, can track the fate and composition of microbial necromass in soil. Last, promising devel-opments in methods and experimental design, such as microfluidics and ‘transparent soil’ microcosms182, allow direct visualization of microorganism–mineral interactions within solid matrices. When combined with imaging tools (for example, confocal and fluorescence microscopy and nanoscale secondary ion mass spec-trometry (nanoSIMS) isotopic imaging, stable isotope probing (SIP), and Raman microspectroscopy), these approaches can provide high- resolution insight into interactions between living and dead microorganisms and their effects on organic matter cycling within a  mineral matrix31,182,183.As the primary agents of organic matter formation and decomposition, soil microorganisms are front- line managers of the global carbon balance. Climate change is already drastically altering the structure and func-tioning of the soil microbial communities yet the effects of microbial life cycles on the trajectory of the global climate remain unclear184,185. To better understand this complexity and develop predictive models of the soil microbiome’s biogeochemical effects, an ecologically informed trait- based framework may provide the most fruitful path forward.Published online 28 February 20221. Guerra, C. A. et al. T racking, targeting, and conserving soil biodiversity. Science 371, 239–241 (2021).2. Orgiazzi, A. et al. Global Soil Biodiversity Atlas  (European Commission, Publications Office of the European Union, 2016).3. T econ, R. & Or, D. Biophysical processes supporting the diversity of microbial life in soil. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 41, 599–623 (2017).4. Williamson, K. E., Fuhrmann, J. J., Wommack, K. E.  & Radosevich, M. Viruses in soil ecosystems: an unknown quantity within an unexplored territory. Annu. Rev. Virol. 4, 201–219 (2017).  This Review provides a comprehensive overview  of methods and technologies used to study soil viruses alongside a guide of metrics describing  soil viruses across diverse soil ecosystems.5. Stefan, G., Cornelia, B., Jörg, R. & Michael, B.  Soil water availability strongly alters the community composition of soil protists. Pedobiologia 57,  205–213 (2014).6. Leake, J. et al. Networks of power and influence:  the role of mycorrhizal mycelium in controlling plant communities and agroecosystem functioning.  Can. J. Bot. 82, 1016–1045 (2004).7. Bahram, M. et al. Structure and function of the global topsoil microbiome. Nature 560, 233–237 (2018).  This study compiled metagenomic and metabarcoding data from 189 sites to demonstrate global patterns in the structure and function of soil microbial communities as well as the widespread prevalence of bacterial–fungal antagonism as  an important structuring force of microbial communities.8. He, L. et al. Global biogeography of fungal and bacterial biomass carbon in topsoil. Soil Biol. Biochem.  151, 108024 (2020).9. Bach, E. M., Williams, R. J., Hargreaves, S. K., Yang, F. & Hofmockel, K. S. Greatest soil microbial diversity found in micro- habitats. Soil Biol. Biochem. 118,  217–226 (2018).10. Bardgett, R. D. & van der Putten, W. H. Belowground biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Nature 515, 505–511 (2014).11. Fierer, N. Embracing the unknown: disentangling the complexities of the soil microbiome. Nat. Rev. Microbiol.  15, 579–590 (2017).12. Delgado- Baquerizo, M. et al. Multiple elements of soil biodiversity drive ecosystem functions across biomes. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 4, 210–220 (2020).13. Crowther, T . W. et al. The global soil community and its influence on biogeochemistry. Science 365, eaav0550 (2019).14. Liang, C., Amelung, W., Lehmann, J. & Kästner, M. Quantitative assessment of microbial necromass contribution to soil organic matter. Glob. Change Biol.  25, 3578–3590 (2019).  This article estimates that more than 50% of  SOM may be derived from microbial necromass in grassland and agricultural ecosystems based on extrapolations from amino sugar biomarker data.15. Angst, G., Mueller, K. E., Nierop, K. G. J. &  Simpson, M. J. Plant- or microbial- derived? A review on the molecular composition of stabilized soil  organic matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 156, 108189 (2021).16. Ludwig, M. et al. Microbial contribution to SOM quantity and quality in density fractions of temperate arable soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 81, 311–322 (2015).  This study uses lipid biomarkers to estimate that at least 50% of SOM may be derived from microbial necromass.17. Simpson, A. J., Simpson, M. J., Smith, E. &  Kelleher, B. P . Microbially derived inputs to soil organic matter: are current estimates too low? Environ. Sci. T echnol. 41, 8070–8076 (2007).18. Blazewicz, S. J. et al. T axon- specific microbial growth and mortality patterns reveal distinct temporal population responses to rewetting in a California grassland soil. ISME J. 14, 1520–1532 (2020).  This study used quantitative stable isotope probing to calculate growth and mortality rates of bacteria following the rewetting of a dry Mediterranean soil, and demonstrated that bacterial growth was density independent whereas bacterial mortality was density dependent.19. Vieira, S. et al. Drivers of the composition of active rhizosphere bacterial communities in temperate grasslands. ISME J. 14, 463–475 (2020).20. Nuccio, E. E. et al. Niche differentiation is spatially and temporally regulated in the rhizosphere. ISME J. 14, 999–1014 (2020).21. Shi, S. et al. Successional trajectories of rhizosphere bacterial communities over consecutive seasons. mBio  6, e00746 (2015).22. Bastian, F., Bouziri, L., Nicolardot, B. & Ranjard, L. Impact of wheat straw decomposition on successional patterns of soil microbial community structure.  Soil Biol. Biochem. 41, 262–275 (2009).23. Whitman, T . et al. Microbial community assembly differs across minerals in a rhizosphere microcosm. Environ. Microbiol. 20, 4444–4460 (2018).24. Maynard, D. S., Crowther, T. W. & Bradford, M. A. Fungal interactions reduce carbon use efficiency.  Ecol. Lett. 20, 1034–1042 (2017).  This study demonstrated that antagonistic interactions between wood- decay fungi can reduce CUE of the fungal community.25. Crowther, T . W. et al. Environmental stress response limits microbial necromass contributions to soil organic carbon. Soil Biol. Biochem. 85, 153–161 (2015).26. Hu, Y., Zheng, Q., Noll, L., Zhang, S. & Wanek, W. Direct measurement of the in situ decomposition of microbial-  derived soil organic matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 141, 107660 (2020).27. Fernandez, C. W., Langley, J. A., Chapman, S., McCormack, M. L. & Koide, R. T . The decomposition  of ectomycorrhizal fungal necromass. Soil Biol. Biochem. 93, 38–49 (2016).  This review article summarizes how the stoichiometry, morphology and chemistry of microbial necromass affects its decomposition rate in soil.28. Buckeridge, K. M. et al. Sticky dead microbes: rapid abiotic retention of microbial necromass in soil.  Soil Biol. Biochem. 149, 107929 (2020).29. Creamer, C. A. et al. Mineralogy dictates the initial mechanism of microbial necromass association. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 260, 161–176 (2019).  This study used Raman microspectroscopy and  13C-labelled necromass to demonstrate that different mineral types retained microbial necromass through different mechanisms and  with different strengths.30. Schurig, C. et al. Microbial cell- envelope fragments and the formation of soil organic matter: a case  study from a glacier forefield. Biogeochemistry 113, 595–612 (2013).31. Kopittke, P . M. et al. Nitrogen- rich microbial products provide new organo- mineral associations for the stabilization of soil organic matter. Glob. Change Biol.  24, 1762–1770 (2018).32. Miltner, A., Bombach, P., Schmidt- Brücken, B.  & Kästner, M. SOM genesis: microbial biomass as  a significant source. Biogeochemistry 111, 41–55 (2012).33. Kleber, M. et al. Dynamic interactions at the mineral–organic matter interface. Nat. Rev. Earth Environ. 2, 402–421 (2021).34. Blagodatskaya, E. & Kuzyakov, Y. Active microorganisms in soil: critical review of estimation criteria and approaches. Soil Biol. Biochem. 67, 192–211 (2013).35. Or, D., Smets, B. F., Wraith, J. M., Dechesne, A.  & Friedman, S. P . Physical constraints affecting bacterial habitats and activity in unsaturated porous media–a review. Adv. Water Resour. 30, 1505–1527 (2007).36. Kuzyakov, Y. & Blagodatskaya, E. Microbial hotspots and hot moments in soil: concept & review. Soil Biol. Biochem. 83, 184–199 (2015).37. Finzi, A. C. et al. Rhizosphere processes are quantitatively important components of terrestrial carbon and nutrient cycles. Glob. Change Biol. 21, 2082–2094 (2015).38. Yuan, M. M. et al. Fungal- bacterial cooccurrence patterns differ between arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and nonmycorrhizal fungi across soil niches. mBio 12, e03509-20 (2015).39. Zhang, L. & Lueders, T . Micropredator niche differentiation between bulk soil and rhizosphere  of an agricultural soil depends on bacterial prey.  FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 93, fix103 (2017).40. Sokol, N. W. & Bradford, M. A. Microbial formation of stable soil carbon is more efficient from belowground than aboveground input. Nat. Geosci. 12, 46–53 (2019).41. Kallenbach, C. M., Frey, S. D. & Grandy, A. S.  Direct evidence for microbial- derived soil organic matter formation and its ecophysiological controls. Nat. Commun. 7, 13630 (2016).  This study used artificial soils to provide empirical evidence that SOM can be entirely microbially derived, and also demonstrated a positive relationship between CUE and SOM formation.42. Wood, J. L., T ang, C. & Franks, A. E. Competitive traits are more important than stress- tolerance traits in a cadmium- contaminated rhizosphere: a role for trait theory in microbial ecology. Front. Microbiol. 9, 121 (2018).NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4270123456789();: 43. Violle, C. et al. Let the concept of trait be functional! Oikos 116, 882–892 (2007).44. Madin, J. S. et al. A synthesis of bacterial and archaeal phenotypic trait data. Sci. Data 7, 170 (2020).45. Shaffer, M. et al. DRAM for distilling microbial metabolism to automate the curation of microbiome function. Nucleic Acids Res. 48, 8883–8900 (2020).46. Brown, C. T ., Olm, M. R., Thomas, B. C. &  Banfield, J. F. Measurement of bacterial replication rates in microbial communities. Nat. Biotechnol. 34, 1256–1263 (2016).  This study developed an algorithm, iRep, that uses draft- quality genome sequences and single time-  point metagenome sequencing to infer microbial population replication rates.47. Nayfach, S. & Pollard, K. S. Average genome size estimation improves comparative metagenomics and sheds light on the functional ecology of the human microbiome. Genome Biol. 16, 51 (2015).48. Leff, J. W. et al. Consistent responses of soil microbial communities to elevated nutrient inputs in grasslands across the globe. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 112, 10967–10972 (2015).49. Vieira- Silva, S. & Rocha, E. P . C. The systemic imprint of growth and its uses in ecological (meta)genomics. PLoS Genet. 6, e1000808 (2010).50. Hasby, F. A., Barbi, F., Manzoni, S. & Lindahl, B. D. T ranscriptomic markers of fungal growth, respiration and carbon- use efficiency. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 368, fnab100 (2021).51. Maillard, F., Schilling, J., Andrews, E., Schreiner, K. M. & Kennedy, P . Functional convergence in the decomposition of fungal necromass in soil and wood. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 96, fiz209 (2020).52. Clemmensen, K. E. et al. Carbon sequestration is related to mycorrhizal fungal community shifts during long- term succession in boreal forests. N. Phytol. 205, 1525–1536 (2015).53. Olivelli, M. S. et al. Unraveling mechanisms behind biomass–clay interactions using comprehensive multiphase nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) Spectroscopy. ACS Earth Space Chem. 4, 2061–2072 (2020).54. Achtenhagen, J., Goebel, M.-O., Miltner, A.,  Woche, S. K. & Kästner, M. Bacterial impact on the wetting properties of soil minerals. Biogeochemistry  122, 269–280 (2015).55. Lehmann, J. et al. Persistence of soil organic carbon caused by functional complexity. Nat. Geosci. 13, 529–534 (2020).56. Ahmed, E. & Holmström, S. J. M. Microbe–mineral interactions: The impact of surface attachment  on mineral weathering and element selectivity by microorganisms. Chem. Geol. 403, 13–23 (2015).57. Chenu, C. Clay- or sand- polysaccharide associations  as models for the interface between micro- organisms and soil: water related properties and microstructure. Geoderma 56, 143–156 (1993).58. Sher, Y. et al. Microbial extracellular polysaccharide production and aggregate stability controlled by switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) root biomass and  soil water potential. Soil Biol. Biochem. 143, 107742 (2020).59. Lybrand, R. A. et al. A coupled microscopy approach to assess the nano- landscape of weathering. Sci. Rep.  9, 5377 (2019).60. Prommer, J. et al. Increased microbial growth, biomass, and turnover drive soil organic carbon accumulation at higher plant diversity. Glob. Change Biol. 26, 669–681 (2020).61. Cotrufo, M. F., Wallenstein, M. D., Boot, C. M.,  Denef, K. & Paul, E. The Microbial Efficiency- Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) framework integrates plant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization: do labile plant inputs form stable soil organic matter? Glob. Change Biol. 19, 988–995 (2013).62. Liang, C., Schimel, J. P . & Jastrow, J. D. The importance of anabolism in microbial control over soil carbon storage. Nat. Microbiol. 2, 17105 (2017).63. Geyer, K. M., Kyker- Snowman, E., Grandy, A. S.  & Frey, S. D. Microbial carbon use efficiency: accounting for population, community, and ecosystem- scale controls over the fate of metabolized organic matter. Biogeochemistry 127, 173–188 (2016).64. Kallenbach, C. M., Grandy, A. S., Frey, S. D. & Diefendorf, A. F. Microbial physiology and necromass regulate agricultural soil carbon accumulation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 91, 279–290 (2015).65. Buckeridge, K. M. et al. Environmental and microbial controls on microbial necromass recycling, an important precursor for soil carbon stabilization. Commun. Earth Env. 1, 36 (2020).66. Saifuddin, M., Bhatnagar, J. M., Segrè, D. & Finzi, A. C. Microbial carbon use efficiency predicted from genome- scale metabolic models. Nat. Commun. 10, 3568 (2019).67. Schimel, J., Balser, T . C. & Wallenstein, M. Microbial stress- response physiology and its implications for ecosystem function. Ecology 88, 1386–1394 (2007).68. Mason‐ Jones, K., Banfield, C. C. & Dippold, M. A. Compound- specific 13C stable isotope probing confirms synthesis of polyhydroxybutyrate by soil bacteria. Rapid Commun. Mass. Spectrom. 33, 795–802 (2019).69. Bååth, E. The use of neutral lipid fatty acids to indicate the physiological conditions of soil fungi. Microb. Ecol.  45, 373–383 (2003).70. Slessarev, E. W. et al. Cellular and extracellular C contributions to respiration after wetting dry soil. Biogeochemistry 147, 307–324 (2020).71. Slessarev, E. W. & Schimel, J. P . Partitioning sources  of CO2 emission after soil wetting using high- resolution observations and minimal models. Soil Biol. Biochem.  143, 107753 (2020).72. Lennon, J. T . & Jones, S. E. Microbial seed banks: the ecological and evolutionary implications of dormancy. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 9, 119–130 (2011).73. Brangarí, A. C., Manzoni, S. & Rousk, J. A soil microbial model to analyze decoupled microbial growth and respiration during soil drying and rewetting. Soil Biol. Biochem. 148, 107871 (2020).74. Zha, J. & Zhuang, Q. Microbial dormancy and its impacts on northern temperate and boreal terrestrial ecosystem carbon budget. Biogeosciences 17,  4591–4610 (2020).75. Anderson, T .-H. Microbial eco- physiological indicators to asses soil quality. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 98,  285–293 (2003).76. Geyer, K., Schnecker, J., Grandy, A. S., Richter, A.  & Frey, S. Assessing microbial residues in soil as a potential carbon sink and moderator of carbon use efficiency. Biogeochemistry 151, 237–249 (2020).77. Sepehrnia, N. et al. T ransport, retention, and release of Escherichia coli and Rhodococcus erythropolis through dry natural soils as affected by water repellency. Sci. T otal Environ. 694, 133666 (2019).78. Boeddinghaus, R. S. et al. The mineralosphere — interactive zone of microbial colonization and carbon use in grassland soils. Biol. Fertil. Soils 57, 587–601 (2021).79. Vieira, S. et al. Bacterial colonization of minerals  in grassland soils is selective and highly dynamic. Environ. Microbiol. 22, 917–933 (2020).80. Ma, T . et al. Divergent accumulation of microbial necromass and plant lignin components in grassland soils. Nat. Commun. 9, 3480 (2018).81. Blazewicz, S. J., Schwartz, E. & Firestone, M. K. Growth and death of bacteria and fungi underlie rainfall- induced carbon dioxide pulses from seasonally dried soil. Ecology 95, 1162–1172 (2014).82. Ceja- Navarro, J. A. et al. Protist diversity and community complexity in the rhizosphere of switchgrass are dynamic as plants develop. Microbiome 9, 96 (2021).83. Starr, E. P ., Nuccio, E. E., Pett- Ridge, J., Banfield, J. F. & Firestone, M. K. Metatranscriptomic reconstruction reveals RNA viruses with the potential to shape carbon cycling in soil. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 116, 25900–25908 (2019).  This comprehensive study of RNA viruses detectable in a grassland soil showed how these viruses are shaped by the presence of plant roots and litter.84. Shi, S. et al. The interconnected rhizosphere:  high network complexity dominates rhizosphere assemblages. Ecol. Lett. 19, 926–936 (2016).85. Yan, Y., Kuramae, E. E., de Hollander, M.,  Klinkhamer, P . G. L. & van Veen, J. A. Functional traits dominate the diversity- related selection of bacterial communities in the rhizosphere. ISME J. 11, 56–66 (2017).86. Zhalnina, K. et al. Dynamic root exudate chemistry and microbial substrate preferences drive patterns  in rhizosphere microbial community assembly.  Nat. Microbiol. 3, 470 (2018).87. Pett- Ridge, J. et al. in Rhizosphere Biology: Interactions Between Microbes and Plants (eds Gupta, V. V. S. R.  & Sharma, A. K.) 51–73 (Springer, 2021).88. Poll, C., Marhan, S., Ingwersen, J. & Kandeler, E. Dynamics of litter carbon turnover and microbial abundance in a rye detritusphere. Soil Biol. Biochem.  40, 1306–1321 (2008).89. Buchkowski, R. W., Bradford, M. A., Grandy, A. S., Schmitz, O. J. & Wieder, W. R. Applying population and community ecology theory to advance understanding of belowground biogeochemistry.  Ecol. Lett. 20, 231–245 (2017).90. Erktan, A., Or, D. & Scheu, S. The physical structure  of soil: determinant and consequence of trophic interactions. Soil Biol. Biochem. 148, 107876 (2020).91. Roesch, L. F. W. et al. Pyrosequencing enumerates and contrasts soil microbial diversity. ISME J. 1, 283–290 (2007).92. Carson, J. K. et al. Low pore connectivity increases bacterial diversity in soil. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 76, 3936–3942 (2010).93. Raynaud, X. & Nunan, N. Spatial ecology of bacteria at the microscale in soil. PLoS ONE 9, e87217 (2014).94. Ekelund, F., Rønn, R. & Christensen, S. Distribution with depth of protozoa, bacteria and fungi in soil profiles from three Danish forest sites. Soil Biol. Biochem. 33, 475–481 (2001).95. Sharrar, A. M. et al. Bacterial secondary metabolite biosynthetic potential in soil varies with phylum, depth, and vegetation type. mBio 11, e00416-20 (2020).96. Georgiou, K., Abramoff, R. Z., Harte, J., Riley, W. J.  & T orn, M. S. Microbial community- level regulation explains soil carbon responses to long- term litter manipulations. Nat. Commun. 8, 1223 (2017).  This modelling study demonstrated that including  a density- dependent microbial mortality term can reduce the oscillatory behaviour of soil carbon models.97. Thakur, M. P . & Geisen, S. T rophic regulations of the soil microbiome. Trends Microbiol. 27, 771–780 (2019).98. Fanin, N. et al. The ratio of Gram- positive to Gram-  negative bacterial PLFA markers as an indicator of carbon availability in organic soils. Soil Biol. Biochem.  128, 111–114 (2019).99. Wang, W. et al. Predatory Myxococcales are widely distributed in and closely correlated with the bacterial community structure of agricultural land. Appl. Soil Ecol. 146, 103365 (2020).100. Hungate, B. A. et al. The functional significance of bacterial predators. mBio 12, e00466-21 (2021).101. Jover, L. F., Effler, T . C., Buchan, A., Wilhelm, S. W.  & Weitz, J. S. The elemental composition of virus particles: implications for marine biogeochemical cycles. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 12, 519–528 (2014).102. Emerson, J. B. et al. Host- linked soil viral ecology along a permafrost thaw gradient. Nat. Microbiol. 3, 870–880 (2018).  This study identified novel viral genomes from metagenomes and linked many of these viruses  in silico to bacterial hosts and carbon metabolisms across the spatial gradient of permafrost thaw.103. Ren, D., Madsen, J. S., Sørensen, S. J. & Burmølle, M. High prevalence of biofilm synergy among bacterial soil isolates in cocultures indicates bacterial interspecific cooperation. ISME J. 9, 81–89 (2015).104. Lee, K. W. K. et al. Biofilm development and enhanced stress resistance of a model, mixed- species community biofilm. ISME J. 8, 894–907 (2014).105. Witzgall, K. et al. Particulate organic matter as a functional soil component for persistent soil organic carbon. Nat. Commun. 12, 4115 (2021).106. Frey, S. D. Mycorrhizal fungi as mediators of soil organic matter dynamics. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst.  50, 237–259 (2019).107. Drigo, B. et al. Shifting carbon flow from roots into associated microbial communities in response to elevated atmospheric CO2. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA  107, 10938–10942 (2010).108. Kaiser, C. et al. Exploring the transfer of recent plant photosynthates to soil microbes: mycorrhizal pathway vs direct root exudation. N. Phytol. 205, 1537–1551 (2015).109. Shah, F. et al. Ectomycorrhizal fungi decompose soil organic matter using oxidative mechanisms adapted from saprotrophic ancestors. N. Phytol. 209,  1705–1719 (2016).110. Tisserant, E. et al. Genome of an arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the oldest plant symbiosis. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 110, 20117–20122 (2013).111. Hestrin, R., Hammer, E. C., Mueller, C. W. &  Lehmann, J. Synergies between mycorrhizal fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant nitrogen acquisition. Commun. Biol. 2, 233 (2019).112. Averill, C., T urner, B. L. & Finzi, A. C. Mycorrhiza-  mediated competition between plants and decomposers drives soil carbon storage. Nature 505, 543–545 (2014).113. Averill, C. & Hawkes, C. V. Ectomycorrhizal fungi slow soil carbon cycling. Ecol. Lett. 19, 937–947 (2016).www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews428 | July 2022 | volume 20 0123456789();: 114. Craig, M. E. et al. T ree mycorrhizal type predicts within- site variability in the storage and distribution  of soil organic matter. Glob. Change Biol. 24,  3317–3330 (2018).115. See, C. R. et al. Hyphae move matter and microbes to mineral microsites: Integrating the hyphosphere into conceptual models of soil organic matter stabilization. Glob. Change Biol. https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.16073 (2022).116. Adamczyk, B., Sietiö, O.-M., Biasi, C. & Heinonsalo, J. Interaction between tannins and fungal necromass stabilizes fungal residues in boreal forest soils.  N. Phytol. 223, 16–21 (2019).117. Vidal, A. et al. Visualizing the transfer of organic matter from decaying plant residues to soil mineral surfaces controlled by microorganisms. Soil Biol. Biochem. 160, 108347 (2021).118. Kallenbach, C. M., Wallenstein, M. D., Schipanksi, M. E. & Grandy, A. S. Managing agroecosystems for soil microbial carbon use efficiency: ecological unknowns, potential outcomes, and a path forward. Front. Microbiol. 10, 1146 (2019).119. Blagodatskaya, E., Blagodatsky, S., Anderson, T .-H.  & Kuzyakov, Y. microbial growth and carbon use efficiency in the rhizosphere and root- free soil.  PLoS ONE 9, e93282 (2014).120. Domeignoz- Horta, L. A. et al. Microbial diversity drives carbon use efficiency in a model soil.  Nat. Commun. 11, 3684 (2020).121. Fernandez, C. W. & Kennedy, P. G. Revisiting the ‘Gadgil effect’: do interguild fungal interactions  control carbon cycling in forest soils? N. Phytol. 209, 1382–1394 (2016).122. Nicolas, A. M. et al. Soil candidate phyla radiation bacteria encode components of aerobic metabolism and co- occur with nanoarchaea in the rare biosphere of rhizosphere grassland communities. mSystems 6, e0120520 (2021).123. Starr, E. P . et al. Stable isotope informed genome-  resolved metagenomics reveals that Saccharibacteria utilize microbially- processed plant- derived carbon. Microbiome 6, 122 (2018).124. Pace, M. L. Bacterial mortality and the fate of bacterial production. Hydrobiologia 159, 41–49 (1988).125. Cram, J. A., Parada, A. E. & Fuhrman, J. A. Dilution reveals how viral lysis and grazing shape microbial communities. Limnol. Oceanogr. 61, 889–905 (2016).126. Ankrah, N. Y. D. et al. Phage infection of an environmentally relevant marine bacterium alters  host metabolism and lysate composition. ISME J. 8, 1089–1100 (2014).  This study demonstrated that in a marine environment, the mechanism of death (that is, phage infection) altered the biochemistry of microbial necromass relative to uninfected cells.127. Lindeman, R. L. The trophic- dynamic aspect of ecology. Ecology 23, 399–417 (1942).128. Clarholm, M. Interactions of bacteria, protozoa  and plants leading to mineralization of soil nitrogen. Soil Biol. Biochem. 17, 181–187 (1985).129. Pasternak, Z. et al. In and out: an analysis of epibiotic vs periplasmic bacterial predators. ISME J. 8,  625–635 (2014).130. Lee, X., Wu, H.-J., Sigler, J., Oishi, C. & Siccama, T . Rapid and transient response of soil respiration to rain. Glob. Change Biol. 10, 1017–1026 (2004).131. Schimel, J. P . Life in dry soils: effects of drought on soil microbial communities and processes. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst. 49, 409–432 (2018).132. Granato, E. T ., Meiller- Legrand, T . A. & Foster, K. R. The evolution and ecology of bacterial warfare.  Curr. Biol. 29, R521–R537 (2019).133. Bradford, M. A. et al. Managing uncertainty in soil carbon feedbacks to climate change. Nat. Clim. Change  6, 751–758 (2016).134. Sierra, C. A. & Müller, M. A general mathematical framework for representing soil organic matter dynamics. Ecol. Monogr. 85, 505–524 (2015).135. Wang, G. et al. Microbial dormancy improves development and experimental validation of ecosystem model. ISME J. 9, 226–237 (2015).136. Wieder, W., Grandy, S., Kallenbach, M. & Bonan, B. Integrating microbial physiology and physio- chemical principles in soils with the MIcrobial- MIneral Carbon Stabilization (MIMICS) model. Biogeosciences 11, 3899–3917 (2014).137. Allison, S. D. A trait- based approach for modelling microbial litter decomposition. Ecol. Lett. 15,  1058–1070 (2012).  This paper described one of the first trait- based modelling approaches to link microbial community composition with physiological and enzymatic traits to predict litter decomposition in soil.138. Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Dieckmann, U. & Richter, A. Microbial community dynamics alleviate stoichiometric constraints during litter decay. Ecol. Lett. 17,  680–690 (2014).139. Ebrahimi, A. & Or, D. Microbial community dynamics in soil aggregates shape biogeochemical gas fluxes from soil profiles – upscaling an aggregate biophysical model. Glob. Change Biol. 22, 3141–3156 (2016).  This paper presented a demonstration of how  to upscale results from a mechanistic model of microbial activity in soil aggregates to scales  of practical interest for hydrological and climate models.140. Lajoie, G. & Kembel, S. W. Making the most of trait-  based approaches for microbial ecology. T rends Microbiol. 27, 814–823 (2019).  This opinion article discussed trait- based approaches in microbial ecology with a focus on utilization of large- scale datasets for improved ecological understanding.141. Wang, G., Post, W. M. & Mayes, M. A. Development  of microbial- enzyme-mediated decomposition model parameters through steady- state and dynamic analyses. Ecol. Appl. 23, 255–272 (2013).142. Moorhead, D. L. & Sinsabaugh, R. L. A theoretical model of litter decay and microbial interaction.  Ecol. Monogr. 76, 151–174 (2006).143. Kooijman, S. A. L. M., Muller, E. B. & Stouthamer, A. H. Microbial growth dynamics on the basis of individual budgets. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 60, 159–174 (1991).144. Evans, S., Dieckmann, U., Franklin, O. & Kaiser, C. Synergistic effects of diffusion and microbial physiology reproduce the Birch effect in a micro- scale model.  Soil Biol. Biochem. 93, 28–37 (2016).145. Allison, S. D. Modeling adaptation of carbon use efficiency in microbial communities. Front. Microbiol.  5, 571 (2014).146. Hawkes, C. V. & Keitt, T . H. Resilience vs. historical contingency in microbial responses to environmental change. Ecol. Lett. 18, 612–625 (2015).147. T ang, J. & Riley, W. J. Weaker soil carbon–climate feedbacks resulting from microbial and abiotic interactions. Nat. Clim. Change 5, 56–60 (2015).148. Zhang, Y. et al. Simulating measurable ecosystem carbon and nitrogen dynamics with the mechanistically-  defined MEMS 2.0 model. Biogeosciences 18,  3147–3171 (2021).149. Blankinship, J. C. et al. Improving understanding of soil organic matter dynamics by triangulating theories, measurements, and models. Biogeochemistry 140, 1–13 (2018).150. Ebrahimi, A. N. & Or, D. Microbial dispersal in unsaturated porous media: Characteristics of motile bacterial cell motions in unsaturated angular pore networks. Water Resour. Res. 50, 7406–7429 (2014).151. T ang, J. & Riley, W. J. A theory of effective microbial substrate affinity parameters in variably saturated soils and an example application to aerobic soil heterotrophic respiration. J. Geophys. Res. Biogeosci.  124, 918–940 (2019).152. Manzoni, S., Schaeffer, S. M., Katul, G., Porporato, A. & Schimel, J. P . A theoretical analysis of microbial eco-physiological and diffusion limitations to carbon cycling in drying soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 73, 69–83 (2014).153. Brangarí, A. C., Fernàndez- Garcia, D., Sanchez- Vila, X. & Manzoni, S. Ecological and soil hydraulic implications of microbial responses to stress – a modeling analysis. Adv. Water Resour. 116, 178–194 (2018).154. Alster, C. J., Weller, Z. D. & von Fischer, J. C. A meta-  analysis of temperature sensitivity as a microbial trait. Glob. Change Biol. 24, 4211–4224 (2018).155. Wang, G., Li, W., Wang, K. & Huang, W. Uncertainty quantification of the soil moisture response functions for microbial dormancy and resuscitation. Soil Biol. Biochem. 160, 108337 (2021).156. Sierra, C. A., T rumbore, S. E., Davidson, E. A., Vicca, S. & Janssens, I. Sensitivity of decomposition rates of soil organic matter with respect to simultaneous changes in temperature and moisture. J. Adv. Model. Earth Syst. 7, 335–356 (2015).157. Nunan, N., Schmidt, H. & Raynaud, X. The ecology  of heterogeneity: soil bacterial communities and C dynamics. Philos. T rans. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 375, 20190249 (2020).158. Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Richter, A. & Dieckmann, U. Social dynamics within decomposer communities lead to nitrogen retention and organic matter build- up  in soils. Nat. Commun. 6, 8960 (2015).159. Craig, M. E., Mayes, M. A., Sulman, B. N. &  Walker, A. P . Biological mechanisms may contribute to soil carbon saturation patterns. Glob. Change Biol. 27, 2633–2644 (2021).160. Fan, X. et al. Improved model simulation of soil carbon cycling by representing the microbially derived organic carbon pool. ISME J. 15, 2248–2263 (2021).161. Sulman, B. N. et al. Multiple models and experiments underscore large uncertainty in soil carbon dynamics. Biogeochemistry 141, 109–123 (2018).  This paper addressed key uncertainties in the representation of microbial degradation and mineral stabilization in five microbially explicit soil carbon models.162. Marschmann, G. L., Pagel, H., Kügler, P . & Streck, T . Equifinality, sloppiness, and emergent structures  of mechanistic soil biogeochemical models. Environ. Model. Softw. 122, 104518 (2019).163. Martiny, J. B. H., Jones, S. E., Lennon, J. T . &  Martiny, A. C. Microbiomes in light of traits:  a phylogenetic perspective. Science 350, aac9323 (2015).164. Malik, A. A., Thomson, B. C., Whiteley, A. S., Bailey, M. & Griffiths, R. I. Bacterial physiological adaptations  to contrasting edaphic conditions identified using landscape scale metagenomics. mBio 8, e00799-17 (2017).165. Westoby, M. et al. T rait dimensions in bacteria and archaea compared to vascular plants. Ecol. Lett. 24, 1487–1504 (2021).166. Jung, M.-Y. et al. Ammonia- oxidizing archaea possess a wide range of cellular ammonia affinities. ISME J.  16, 272–283 (2022).167. Kempes, C. P ., Wang, L., Amend, J. P ., Doyle, J.  & Hoehler, T . Evolutionary tradeoffs in cellular composition across diverse bacteria. ISME J. 10, 2145–2157 (2016).168. Dethlefsen, L. & Schmidt, T . M. Performance of the translational apparatus varies with the ecological strategies of bacteria. J. Bacteriol. 189, 3237–3245 (2007).169. Andersen, K. H. et al. Characteristic sizes of life in the oceans, from bacteria to whales. Annu. Rev. Mar. Sci.  8, 217–241 (2016).170. Malik, A. A. et al. Defining trait- based microbial strategies with consequences for soil carbon cycling under climate change. ISME J. 14, 1–9 (2020).171. Weissman, J. L., Hou, S. & Fuhrman, J. A. Estimating maximal microbial growth rates from cultures, meta-genomes, and single cells via codon usage patterns. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 118, e2016810118 (2021).172. Li, G., Rabe, K. S., Nielsen, J. & Engqvist, M. K. M. Machine learning applied to predicting microorganism growth temperatures and enzyme catalytic optima. ACS Synth. Biol. 8, 1411–1420 (2019).173. Hungate, B. A. et al. Quantitative microbial ecology through stable isotope probing. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 81, 7570–7581 (2015).174. Couradeau, E. et al. Probing the active fraction of soil microbiomes using BONCAT - FACS. Nat. Commun. 10, 2770 (2019).175. Starr, E. P . et al. Stable- isotope-informed, genome-  resolved metagenomics uncovers potential cross-  kingdom interactions in rhizosphere soil. mSphere 6, e0008521 (2021).176. Rousk, J. & Bååth, E. Fungal and bacterial growth  in soil with plant materials of different C/N ratios. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 62, 258–267 (2007).177. Koechli, C., Campbell, A. N., Pepe- Ranney, C. & Buckley, D. H. Assessing fungal contributions to cellulose degradation in soil by using high- throughput stable isotope probing. Soil Biol. Biochem. 130,  150–158 (2019).178. Wilhelm, R. C., Singh, R., Eltis, L. D. & Mohn, W. W. Bacterial contributions to delignification and lignocellulose degradation in forest soils with metagenomic and quantitative stable isotope probing. ISME J. 13, 413–429 (2019).179. Neurath, R. A. et al. Root carbon interaction with  soil minerals is dynamic, leaving a legacy of microbially derived residues. Environ. Sci. T echnol. 55,  13345–13355 (2021).180. Luo, Y. et al. Rice rhizodeposition promotes the build-up of organic carbon in soil via fungal necromass. Soil Biol. Biochem. 160, 108345 (2021).181. Carini, P . et al. Relic DNA is abundant in soil and obscures estimates of soil microbial diversity.  Nat. Microbiol. 2, 16242 (2016).182. Sharma, K., Palatinszky, M., Nikolov, G., Berry, D.  & Shank, E. A. T ransparent soil microcosms for live- cell imaging and non- destructive stable isotope probing  of soil microorganisms. eLife 9, e56275 (2020).NATuRe RevIeWS | MICRoBIoLogyReviews  volume 20 | July 2022 | 4290123456789();: 183. Arellano- Caicedo, C., Ohlsson, P ., Bengtsson, M., Beech, J. P . & Hammer, E. C. Habitat geometry in artificial microstructure affects bacterial and fungal growth, interactions, and substrate degradation. Commun. Biol. 4, 1226 (2021).184. Jansson, J. K. & Hofmockel, K. S. Soil microbiomes and climate change. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 18, 35–46 (2020).185. García- Palacios, P . et al. Evidence for large  microbial-mediated losses of soil carbon under anthropogenic warming. Nat. Rev. Earth Env. 2,  507–517 (2021).186. Schulz, F. et al. Hidden diversity of soil giant viruses. Nat. Commun. 9, 4881 (2018).187. T rubl, G. et al. T owards optimized viral metagenomes for double- stranded and single- stranded DNA viruses from challenging soils. PeerJ 7, e7265 (2019).188. Guo, J. et al. VirSorter2: a multi- classifier, expert-  guided approach to detect diverse DNA and RNA viruses. Microbiome 9, 37 (2021).189. Sommers, P ., Chatterjee, A., Varsani, A. & T rubl, G. Integrating viral metagenomics into an ecological framework. Annu. Rev. Virol. 8, 133–158 (2021).190. Pratama, A. A. & van Elsas, J. D. The ‘neglected’ soil virome–potential role and impact. T rends Microbiol.  26, 649–662 (2018).191. Ghosh, D. et al. Prevalence of lysogeny among soil bacteria and presence of 16S rRNA and trzN genes  in viral- community DNA. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 74, 495–502 (2008).192. Roux, S. et al. Ecogenomics and potential biogeochemical impacts of globally abundant ocean viruses. Nature 537, 689–693 (2016).193. Howard- Varona, C. et al. Phage- specific metabolic reprogramming of virocells. ISME J. 14, 881–895 (2020).194. Howard- Varona, C. et al. Multiple mechanisms drive phage infection efficiency in nearly identical hosts. ISME J. 12, 1605–1618 (2018).195. Van Goethem, M. Characteristics of wetting- induced bacteriophage blooms in biological soil crust. mBio  10, e02287-19 (2019).196. T rubl, G. et al. Active virus- host interactions at sub-  freezing temperatures in Arctic peat soil. Microbiome  9, 208 (2021).197. Lee, S. et al. Methane- derived carbon flows into  host–virus networks at different trophic levels in soil. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 118, e2105124118 (2021).  This study used stable isotope probing metagenomics to connect, in situ, active virus–host infections with the biogeochemical process of methane oxidation in soil.198. Bolduc, B., Youens- Clark, K., Roux, S., Hurwitz, B. L. & Sullivan, M. B. iVirus: facilitating new insights in viral ecology with software and community data sets imbedded in a cyberinfrastructure. ISME J. 11, 7–14 (2017).AcknowledgementsThe authors thank the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) Soil Microbiome Scientific Focus Area team for helpful discussions, and K. Georgiou and E. Whalen for providing comments on earlier drafts of the manuscript. This work was supported by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Biological and Environmental Research, Genomic Science Program (GSP) LLNL ‘Microbes Persist’ Soil Microbiome Scientific Focus Area SCW1632. Work at LLNL was performed under the auspices of the DOE, Contract DE- AC52-07NA27344. Part of this work was  performed at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory funded under U.S. Department of Energy contract number DE- AC02-05CH11231.Author contributionsN.W.S., E.S., G.L.M., A.N., S.J.B., E.L.B., M.M.F., R.H., B.A.H., B.J.K., B.W.S., O.Z. and J.P .- R. wrote the article. All main authors helped contribute to discussions of the content and reviewed or edited the article before submission. The Consortium contributed to several ideas in the manuscript, particularly to T able 1.Competing interestsThe authors declare no competing interests.Peer review informationNature Reviews Microbiology thanks the anonymous reviewers  for their contribution to the peer review of this work.Publisher’s noteSpringer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. This is a U.S. government work and not under copyright pro-tection in the U.S.; foreign copyright protection may apply 2022LLNL Soil Microbiome ConsortiumNoah W. Sokol1, Eric Slessarev1, Gianna L. Marschmann2, Alexa Nicolas3, Steven J. Blazewicz1, Eoin L. Brodie2,4, Mary K. Firestone4, Megan M. Foley5,6, Rachel Hestrin1, Bruce A. Hungate5,6, Benjamin J. Koch5,6, Bram W. Stone7, Matthew B. Sullivan8,9,10, Olivier Zablocki8,9, Jennifer Pett- Ridge1,11, Gareth T rubl1, Karis McFarlane1, Rhona Stuart1, Erin Nuccio1, Peter Weber1, Yongqin Jiao1, Mavrik Zavarin1, Jeffrey Kimbrel1, Keith Morrison1, Dinesh Adhikari1, Amrita Bhattacharaya1,2, Peter Nico2, Jinyun T ang2,  Nicole Didonato12, Ljiljana Paša- T olić12, Alex Greenlon4, Ella T . Sieradzki4, Paul Dijkstra5,6, Egbert Schwartz6, Rohan Sachdeva4 and Jillian Banfield2,412Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, Richland, WA, USA. Related lInksmicroTrait: https://github.com/ukaraoz/microtraitwww.nature.com/nrmicroReviews430 | July 2022 | volume 20 