Citation: Vidal, C.; González, F.;Santander, C.; Pérez, R.; Gallardo, V .;Santos, C.; Aponte, H.; Ruiz, A.;Cornejo, P . Management ofRhizosphere Microbiota and PlantProduction under Drought Stress: AComprehensive Review. Plants 2022 ,11, 2437. https://doi.org/10.3390/plants11182437Academic Editor: Andrey A. BelimovReceived: 18 August 2022Accepted: 16 September 2022Published: 19 September 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).plantsReviewManagement of Rhizosphere Microbiota and Plant Productionunder Drought Stress: A Comprehensive ReviewCatalina Vidal1, Felipe Gonz ález1,2, Christian Santander1,3, Rodrigo P érez1,4, Víctor Gallardo1,4,Cledir Santos1,5, Humberto Aponte6, Antonieta Ruiz1,5and Pablo Cornejo7,*1Center for Research on Mycorrhizae and Agro-Environmental Sustainability (CIMYSA),Universidad de la Frontera, Temuco 4811-230, Chile2Doctorate in Sciences Mention Applied Cellular and Molecular Biology, Universidad de la Frontera,Temuco 4811-230, Chile3Environmental Engineering and Biotechnology Group, Faculty of Environmental Sciences andEU-LA-Chile Center, Universidad de Concepci ón, Concepci ón 4070-411, Chile4Doctorate Program in Science of Natural Resources, Universidad de la Frontera, Temuco 4811-230, Chile5Department of Chemical Science and Natural Resources, Universidad de La Frontera, Temuco 4811-230, Chile6Laboratory of Soil Microbial Ecology and Biogeochemistry, Institute of Agri-Food,Animal and Environmental Sciences (ICA3), Universidad de O’Higgins, San Fernando 3070-000, Chile7Escuela de Agronom ía, Facultad de Ciencias Agron ómicas y de los Alimentos, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Cat ólicade Valpara íso, Quillota 2260-000, Chile*Correspondence: pablo.cornejo@pucv.clAbstract: Drought generates a complex scenario worldwide in which agriculture should urgently bereframed from an integrative point of view. It includes the search for new water resources and the useof tolerant crops and genotypes, improved irrigation systems, and other less explored alternativesthat are very important, such as biotechnological tools that may increase the water use efﬁciency.Currently, a large body of evidence highlights the role of speciﬁc strains in the main microbialrhizosphere groups (arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, yeasts, and bacteria) on increasing the droughttolerance of their host plants through diverse plant growth-promoting (PGP) characteristics. With thisbackground, it is possible to suggest that the joint use of distinct PGP microbes could produce positiveinteractions or additive beneﬁcial effects on their host plants if their co-inoculation does not generateantagonistic responses. To date, such effects have only been partially analyzed by using single omicstools, such as genomics, metabolomics, or proteomics. However, there is a gap of information in theuse of multi-omics approaches to detect interactions between PGP and host plants. This approachmust be the next scale-jump in the study of the interaction of soil–plant–microorganism. In thisreview, we analyzed the constraints posed by drought in the framework of an increasing globaldemand for plant production, integrating the important role played by the rhizosphere biota as a PGPagent. Using multi-omics approaches to understand in depth the processes that occur in plants in thepresence of microorganisms can allow us to modulate their combined use and drive it to increasecrop yields, improving production processes to attend the growing global demand for food.Keywords: arbuscular mycorrhizae; global climate change; PGP bacteria; PGP fungi; plant growthpromotion; rhizosphere engineering1. IntroductionProjections of agroclimatic models indicate a strong impact of global climate change(GCC), represented by both temperature increases of 0.5 to 2C by 2100 and a signiﬁcant de-crease in rainfall [ 1,2]. This change will undoubtedly promote a reconversion of agronomicpractices to produce the necessary food for a growing world population, both in volumeand requirements of high-quality products [ 3]. Regardless of the plant species cropped,agricultural production depends on a signiﬁcant proportion of water being supplied mainlyPlants 2022 ,11, 2437. https://doi.org/10.3390/plants11182437 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/plantsPlants 2022 ,11, 2437 2 of 19by rainfall, which has had a strong impact on the production of the last few seasons due toa marked mega-drought in many places around the world [1].Under this complex scenario, the availability of water sources for irrigation is also amajor structural problem, since the availability of adequate infrastructure to allow waterstorage is insufﬁcient to ensure access to water during periods of higher demand [ 4].Such constraints require the implementation of innovative agricultural approaches toincrease resilience to climate variability, such as the incorporation of new species to becropped. Additionally, lands where new crop species are chosen to be incorporated inmust be evaluated in terms of alternatives to increase the “water use efﬁciency”, togetherwith an increased plant tolerance to drought [ 5–8]. The above is a major challenge forglobal agricultural activity given the extent of the predicted climate change effects onagriculture [9].Consequently, one of the major questions to be answered under this complex paradigmis not how to access more water in the short–medium term (that could only be answeredat the infrastructural level and in the long term) but how it would be possible to keep thecurrent yields of plant production with the scarce water availability, or even how to increasethem based on the projected demand. An alternative that has generated much interest inrecent years is the use of plant growth-promoting (PGP) microorganisms as inoculants(biofertilizers) in agricultural plants [ 6,7,10,11]. The above is based on the numerousmicrobial strains that have developed tolerance to the environmental stresses in which theycommonly are exposed. This, together with the microbial fast growth and multiplicationrate, can generate a high abundance of some desirable traits in a very short time.Among the multiple PGP microbial groups, the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungistand out because they establish strict mutualist symbiosis with most of the agriculturalplant species, mainly characterized by providing mineral nutrition (as P) and watertransport to the host plants [ 5,12,13]. Moreover, the development of biotechnologicaltools using AM fungi constitutes one of the most environmentally friendly alternativesto address the above-described constraints in a context of resilient agriculture [ 12,14–17].Additionally, other free-living microorganisms such as yeast and bacteria present diversePGP traits, which also support their use as biofertilizers. While their beneficial effects onplant growth have been extensively described, they also produce effects in plants thatcan be based on (or can promote) molecular, biochemical, and physiological changesthat are lesser known.Despite the increasing use of microbial inoculants from both monospeciﬁc isolatesand consortia of yeast and bacteria (for instance, [ 7,18]), some points need to be addressed,such as: (a) the basis by which such microorganisms generate beneﬁcial responses in plants;and (b) the multiple microbial or “ecological” interactions that may occur in the rhizo-sphere [19,20] . In the last case, it may not necessarily produce positive effects, being in somecases even negative [ 21]. Therefore, as a basis for the design of optimized bioinoculants, itis necessary to understand their degree of compatibility. This can be achieved by avoidingnegative interactions such as competition or predation and promoting commensalism andcooperation [ 22]. Finally, the microbial functionality in generating desirable responses inthe host plants will be registered as yield and food quality increases.There are previous experiences that link, at the molecular level, the responses ofplants to inoculation with certain PGP microorganisms [ 11,23,24]. Meanwhile, to thebest of our knowledge, there are no systematized works to develop microbial consortiaengineered to different hosts, including microbe–microbe interactions + PGP traits + shiftsin plant mechanisms, to develop optimized biofertilizers for a speciﬁc plant species. Incontrast, it is commonly concluded that the effects observed by the inoculation with a PGPmicroorganism in a model plant could easily be transferred to other species without a deepunderstanding of the physiological, biochemical, or molecular changes in the host plant(regarding the uninoculated plant) [7,10].Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 3 of 19The above scenario generates double uncertainty: (i) whether the inoculant can bebeneﬁcial to more than one host plant species; (ii) whether the plant responses can bemechanistically equivalent between different host plants using the same inoculant. Cur-rently, the multiple soil–microorganism–plant interactions represent an unexplored “blackbox”. Much less effort has been put into the validation at the ﬁeld level of an inoculant’seffectiveness beyond the argued socially friendly decrease in the use of chemical inputs, ascommonly advertised by marketing agricultural companies.Against this scenario, the current “omics” tools emerge as an attainable alternative toclarify “what is happening in this black box”, allowing us to describe and predict behaviorsin plants based on powerful genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic tools.Therefore, with this focused review, we hoped to summarize the current and updatedknowledge regarding the role of microbial tools used as bioinoculants to improve the plantproduction. In addition, we highlight the projections based on the use of single-omicsplatforms and multi-omics approaches. With this, our aim was to elucidate the mechanismsthat explain the improvements in yield and food quality under drought stress, as one themain sensible effects of climate change in agriculture.2. The Drought as Main Constraint for Plant Production in a Global ClimateChange ScenarioAgriculture meets our food demands (food security), being the main practice thatcontributes to the economy in many countries worldwide. However, the intensiﬁcationof agriculture has also led to the degradation and exhaustion of soils; moreover, about38% of suitable agricultural lands around the world have been degraded by inadequatemanagement practices [ 25,26]. Supplying the increasing world population with sufﬁcientfood is mandatory. Because of this, food security is the most important challenge inthe21st century . However, nowadays, food security is strongly threatened by globalwarming [27].Global warming and associated climate change not only affect air temperature butalso inﬂuence the amount and distribution of rainfall [ 28]. Predictive models of GCC haveshown that the frequency of precipitation events and net volumes have drastically changedduring the past one hundred years. It has caused frequent and severe periods of drought inlarge areas around the world [29].The agricultural sector is responsible for about 75% of the total global consumptionof water [ 30]. However, in the wake of GCC, drought has emerged as one of the majorabiotic stresses and is considered the strongest environmental stress that limits the plantgrowth, reducing crop productivity [ 31,32]. Due to the droughts, yield reductions havebeen reported in the order of 21 to 40%, from 1980 to 2015, for wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) andmaize ( Zea mays ) productions, two of the most important crops worldwide [ 33]. Moreover,considering that among 80–95% of the fresh weight of plants consists of water, it is evidentthat drought stress leads to changes on a multidimensional level, modifying differentphysiological, biochemical, molecular, and morphological processes in plants [34–36].The responses of plants to water stress depend on the length and severity of the waterdeﬁciency [ 37]. Many plants have developed mechanisms to tolerate water stress, butthese mechanisms are varied and depend on the plant species. Included among themare developmental, physiological, morphological, ecological, biochemical and molecularmechanisms [ 38]. Mainly, the mechanisms involved in plant tolerance to drought are basedon maintaining cell water homeostasis under drought conditions, allowing diminishedwater loss and increasing the water inlet to the plants [39].To improve plant responses against the water stress, different approaches are currentlybeing studied, such as traditional breeding methods, transgenic technology, and primingmethods, among others. However, because of the complexity of drought effects on plantsand the speciﬁc responses of plants to the water stress, each method has some problemsand limitations [40–42].Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 4 of 19In addition, the role of root-associated microbial communities able to improve plantdrought tolerance has only been explored in recent years [ 43]. In this way, different studieshave reported that beneﬁcial soil microorganisms improve plant tolerance to abiotic stressesby producing a root—soil interface that directly or indirectly enhances the absorption ofwater and nutrients. The most important groups of microorganisms related to increasedtolerance to water scarcity include the PGP rhizobacteria and AM fungi [5].3. Rhizosphere Microbial Groups and Ecological Roles for Plant Production underDrought ConditionsCurrently, due to the importance of the functions that soil provides, it is widelyrecognized that soil represents one of the main frontiers of science. The functions that soilprovides strongly determine the productivity of terrestrial ecosystems, both natural andagricultural-modiﬁed ones [ 44,45]. The sustainable development of agriculture is mediatedby biotic and abiotic factors, the rhizosphere being an environment that can be consideredthe common point shared by both factors. The health of the rhizosphere matrix is closelyrelated to the state of its present PGP microbial communities [46].In this ecological niche, factors such as the availability of oxygen, nutrients (C:N:P ra-tio) and water modulate a signiﬁcant fraction of the total interactions in the rhizosphere [ 47].In addition, in this volume of soil, it is possible to ﬁnd exudates from plant roots (rhizode-posits), which are considered an essential component of the rhizosphere [ 48,49]. Thepresence or absence of rhizodeposits can signiﬁcantly affect rhizosphere interactions sincethey fulﬁll signaling functions to give way to the symbiotic association between the plantand PGP microorganisms [50].Another fundamental characteristic in the ecology of the rhizosphere is the restrictioninteractions of microorganisms. It has the characteristic of restricting other microorganismsfrom interacting with the plant (e.g., plant pathogen microorganisms). This converts therhizosphere into a bridge of chemical communication between the plant and the PGPmicroorganisms for the formation of protective microbial bioﬁlms, acting as biocontrolagents in both the defense and resistance process of the host plant [51].The rhizosphere comprises a complex and dynamic microenvironment, with medi-ating characteristics in the selection of organisms that interact with the host plant. Therhizosphere can be understood as a holobiont assemblage, which is formed by the associa-tion of a host and its microbial communities [ 52,53]. The holobiont impacts the stability,adaptation and evolution of the organisms involved in the assemblage [54].Under stress conditions, such as drought, salt, and poor nutrient availability, theproper functioning of the holobiont is essential for the development and growth of plants,and thus, for improving their tolerance and nutrient-obtaining capacities [ 55]. In sum-mary, the ecological relationship between the rhizosphere and the characteristics of PGPmicroorganisms is essential for the growth, nutrition, and quality of crops, both underfavorable and stress conditions. This importance is reﬂected even more in a context ofclimate change, where interactions at the rhizosphere level play a fundamental role in thehealth of crops [ 56], carbon sequestration, nutrient cycling, and rhizosphere ecosystemfunctioning [57,58].Plants are closely associated with soil microorganisms both externally and internallyin various ways [ 59]. Numerous works have demonstrated the important role playedby rhizosphere microorganisms in plant growth, highlighting those with PGP capacity(Figure 1). These PGP traits have been evidenced in several studies using different rhizo-sphere microorganisms (Tables 1 and 2). PGP microorganisms, in addition to beneﬁtingplant growth, are also characterized by having the ability to produce hormones and lyticenzymes, showing a promising use as bioinoculants [ 60]. Some microorganisms are alsoinvolved in the production of secondary metabolites, thus promoting carbon sequestration,nitrogen ﬁxation, and phosphorus solubilization in the rhizosphere [61,62].Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 5 of 19Plants 2022 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  5 of 20    Figure 1. Generalized  representation of the main effects of plant growth -promoting (PGP) traits on cropped plants under drought conditions as the basis for the design of optimized biofertilizers. Pos-sible effects of PGP microorganisms on plants are shown with + /− since such effects might be posi-tive or negative.  PGP microorganisms (fungi, yeasts, and bacteria) are present in the soil and can con-tribute to maintain ing or enhanc ing soil health, improving plant growth, inducing sys-temic resistance in plants , and increasing stress tolerance against different unfavorable environmental conditions, both biotic and abiotic [63]. Several works have described these PGP attributes, emphasizi ng mainly their ability to: (i) ensure greater nutrient availability for plants [64], (ii) stimulate changes in their root structure [13], (iii) promote the estab-lishment and growth of plants under conditions of abiotic stress (e.g., potentially toxic elem ents, salinity, and drought) [5,12,65–67], or (iv) help with the control of phytopatho-gens [68].  Studies looking for beneficial microorganisms have typically used various character-istics to assess their PGP capacity, such as the microbial production of 1 -aminocyclopro-pane -1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase, siderophores, indole -3-acetic acid (IAA), and en-zymes for the solubilization of nutrients (mainly phosphates) [6,7,14,69,70] . In addition, certain microbes (e.g. , some bacteria and yeast) can potentially miti gate the phytotoxic effects by producing organic acids and extracellular polymeric substances, such as exopol-ysaccharides (EPS s). Additionally , AM fungi contribute with this through the production of glomalin, which is a fungal glycoprotein  [18,71–75]. All the above beneficial traits are normally observed at rhizosphere level, with scarce reports that include the effects on host plants. The use of PGP microbes has been analyzed through effects on plants such as: (i) improvements in photosynthetic variables [7,8,76,77] , (ii) biofortification of plants with essential [78,79] and beneficial nutrients [19,20], (iii) modification of antioxidant responses [66,80], and (iv) changes in secondary metabolite profiles [81–83], among others.  Figure 1. Generalized representation of the main effects of plant growth-promoting (PGP) traitson cropped plants under drought conditions as the basis for the design of optimized biofertilizers.Possible effects of PGP microorganisms on plants are shown with +/  since such effects might bepositive or negative.PGP microorganisms (fungi, yeasts, and bacteria) are present in the soil and can con-tribute to maintaining or enhancing soil health, improving plant growth, inducing systemicresistance in plants, and increasing stress tolerance against different unfavorable environ-mental conditions, both biotic and abiotic [ 63]. Several works have described these PGPattributes, emphasizing mainly their ability to: (i) ensure greater nutrient availability forplants [ 64], (ii) stimulate changes in their root structure [ 13], (iii) promote the establishmentand growth of plants under conditions of abiotic stress (e.g., potentially toxic elements,salinity, and drought) [5,12,65–67], or (iv) help with the control of phytopathogens [68].Studies looking for beneﬁcial microorganisms have typically used various characteris-tics to assess their PGP capacity, such as the microbial production of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase, siderophores, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and enzymesfor the solubilization of nutrients (mainly phosphates) [ 6,7,14,69,70]. In addition, certainmicrobes (e.g., some bacteria and yeast) can potentially mitigate the phytotoxic effectsby producing organic acids and extracellular polymeric substances, such as exopolysac-charides (EPSs). Additionally, AM fungi contribute with this through the production ofglomalin, which is a fungal glycoprotein [18,71–75].All the above beneﬁcial traits are normally observed at rhizosphere level, with scarcereports that include the effects on host plants. The use of PGP microbes has been analyzedthrough effects on plants such as: (i) improvements in photosynthetic variables [ 7,8,76,77],(ii) biofortiﬁcation of plants with essential [ 78,79] and beneﬁcial nutrients [ 19,20], (iii)modiﬁcation of antioxidant responses [ 66,80], and (iv) changes in secondary metaboliteproﬁles [81–83], among others.However, it should be noticed that the most recent reports highlight the increasedtolerance of plants against water stress, such as those based in salinity and drought, becauseof direct and indirect effects by the above-described traits. In this sense, microorganismsPlants 2022 ,11, 2437 6 of 19with PGP capabilities have been shown to promote plant growth under water deﬁcit stressconditions, suggesting that they are naturally acclimatized to the stressed environment [ 84].Bacteria with PGP attributes, for instance, are key soil components able to establishbeneﬁcial associations with plants [ 46]. Additionally, bacteria are the most studied groupof microorganisms under drought stress conditions, including the genera Acinetobacter ,Azospirillum ,Azotobacter ,Arthrobacter ,Bacillus ,Beijerinckia ,Brevundimonas ,Burkholderia ,Clostridium ,Delftia ,Duganella ,Erwinia ,Enterobacter ,Flavobacterium ,Hydrogenophaga ,Methy-lobacterium ,Paenibacillus ,Pantoea ,Proteus ,Providencia ,Pseudomonas ,Psychrobacter ,Rhizobium ,Serratia ,Stenotrophomonas ,Streptoccoccus , and Streptomyces [85–89].In order to enhance plant growth, the most common effect of bacteria on plantsexposed to drought conditions is the improvement in the antioxidant plant responses,reducing the cell damage (mainly in membranes) and alleviating their status of stress(Table 1).Table 1. Recent research (2020–2022) of plant growth-promoting (PGP) bacteria and their effects onplants growing under drought stress.Crop Microorganism PGP Traits Evidenced Speciﬁc Effects ReferencesSorghum bicolor L.Streptomyces laurentii andPenicillium sp.P and Zn-solubilization.Siderophores, hydrogencyanide, NH 3andIAA production+ Plant growth+ Chlorophyll content+ Production of osmolytes Lipid peroxidation[89]Poncirus trifoliataOchrobacetrum sp.,Microbacterium sp.,Enterobacter sp., andEnterobacter cloacaeN-ﬁxation, P-solubilization,ACC deaminase activity,siderophore andIAA production+ Proline accumulation in leaves+ Relative water content+ Cell membrane stability index+ Genes like sbP5CS2 and sbP5CS1[59]Zea mays L.Arthrobacter arilaitensis andStreptomycespseudovenezuelaeP-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA,siderophore, andammonia production+ Shoot and root lengths+ Dry shoot and root weights+ Chlorophyll content+ Numbers of leaves[90]Triticum aestivum Pseudomonas azotoformansP-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, EPS andIAA production. Expression ofbioﬁlm genes AdnA and FliC+ Plant growth+ Dry weight of root and shoot+ Photosynthetic pigments content CAT, SOD, and GR activity[91]Glycine Max L.Bacillus cereus ,Pseudomonas otitidis , andPseudomonas sp.P-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA andammonia production+ Plant growth+ Stomatal density+ Relative water content+ Chlorophyll pigments+ Sugar, protein, and proline content MDA and H 2O2[92]Oryza sativa L.Bacillus megaterium ,Bacillus altitudinis , andBacillus endophyticusACC deaminase activity, IAA,EPS, and GA productionunder stress conditions+ Plant growth+ Carotenoids+ Total proteins+ Sugar content[93]Zea mayz L.Bacillus subtilis strains(DHK and B1N1)P-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA andsiderophore production.Antagonism withFusarium oxysporum andRhizoctonia solani+ Plant growth+ SOD, POD, and CAT activity+ Chlorophyll content+ Amino acid content ROS species[94]Solanum lycopersicumStreptomyces strains (IT25and C-2012)P-solubilization, siderophoreproduction, ACC deaminaseactivity. Salinity tolerance(NaCl 13%)+ Plant growth+ Leaf relative water content+ Proline, MDA, H 2O2, and totalsugar content+ Gene expression of ERF1and WRKY70+ APX activity CAT and GPX activity[95]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 7 of 19Table 1. Cont.Crop Microorganism PGP Traits Evidenced Speciﬁc Effects ReferencesTriticum aestivum L.Pseudomonas sp. andSerratia marcescensP-solubilization,Zn-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA, EPS,siderophore, andammonia production+ Osmolyte accumulation+ Chlorophyll and carotenoids+ Zn and Fe content in grains[96]Triticum aestivum L.Pseudomona helmanticensisand Pseudomona baeticaP-solubilization and IAAproduction in presence ofsalinity (NaCl 4%) in differentdrought stress+ Soil p-available+ Shoot and root dry weight+ Grain yield+ P uptake by shoot[97]Oryza Sativa L.Diverse PGPmicroorganismP-solubilization, siderophore,EPS, N-ﬁxation, expression ofnifH and polR genes.Drought tolerance+ Rice seedling+ Shoot length+ Shoot and root fresh weight+ Antioxidant capability+ Proline and soluble sugar content[98]Zea mays L.Bacillus subtilis andBacillus safensisP-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA,EPS, bioﬁlm, andalginate production+ Total chlorophyll, carotenoid, andsoluble sugar Proline accumulation Antioxidant enzymes ACC accumulation, ACC oxidaseand ACC synthase under salt stress[14]Eleusine coracana L.Variovorax paradoxus ,Ochrobactrum anthropi ,Pseudomonas palleroniana ,Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens ,and PseudomonaspalleronianaP-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA andsiderophore production,N-ﬁxation+ Overall growth parameters andnutrient concentration+ SOD, GPX, CAT, and APX activity+ Proline, phenol, and chlorophyll H2O2and MDA[99]Sorghum bicolorStreptomyces sp. andNocardiopsis sp.P-solubilization, ACCdeaminase activity, IAA andsiderophore production underdrought, heat, and Cd stress+ Plant growth and photosyntheticpigments+ Translocation of Cd from rootto shoot+ SOD, APX, and CAT activity MDA concentration[100](+): Increase; (  ): Decrease; CAT: Catalase; SOD: Superoxide dismutase; POD: Peroxidase; APX: Ascorbate perosi-dase; GPX: Guaiacol peroxidase; GR: Glutation reductase; GTS: Glutation transferase; PPO: polyphenoloxidase;MDA: Malondialdehyde; AsA: Ascorbic Acid; AMF: Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi; EPS: exopolysaccharideIAA: Indole acetic acid; ABA: abscisic acid.AM fungi are another important microbial group studied by its PGP effects. AMfungi are an obligate biotroph that depend on living root tissue for carbohydrate supply,which allows them to complete their life cycle [ 101]. AM fungal colonization on plantroots occurs when its hyphae penetrate the epidermis and grow extensively between andwithin living cortical cells, forming a very large and dynamic interface between bothsymbionts. It enhances plant growth and yield and also decreases the effects of severalabiotic stresses [102].This obligate symbiosis can promote the formation of stable aggregates and im-prove water storage in the soil through the production of glomalin, which is releasedin large amounts into the soil [ 5,75,103]. Moreover, the formation of AM symbiosiscan change the efficiency of water uptake by modifying the ionic balances (Na/K) inthe host plant, as well as modifying the relative expression of PIP aquaporin and ionicNHX antiporter genes under osmotic stress [ 5,104]. New reports using AM fungi inassociation with other PGP microorganisms have also shown a beneficial (synergic oradditive) effect on plant growth and development when established in water-scarceenvironments (Table 2).Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 8 of 19Table 2. Recent research (2020–2022) regarding the use of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) withor without complements and their effects on plant under drought stress.TCrop AMF + Complement Speciﬁc Effects ReferenceGlycine max L.Glomus clarum ,Glomus mosseae ,and Gigaspora margarita +Bradyrhizobium japonicum+ Number of nodules+ Grain yield and growth+ CAT and POD in seeds+ Proline content+ Gene expression of CAT and POD Gene expression of P5CS, P5CR, PDH,and P5CDH[105]Poncirus trifoliata Funneliformis mosseae+ Leaf gas exchange+ Soil pH, and ammonium content+ H+-ATPase activity on shoot and roots+ Regulation of H+-ATPase gene PtAHA2[106]Poncirus trifoliata Funneliformis mosseae+ Growth traits and leaf water potential+ Gene expression of two aquaporin protein+ Chlorophyll concentration[107]Glycine max L.Acaulospora laevis ,Septoglomusdeserticola , and Rhizophagusirregularis +Bacillusamyloliquefaciens+ Plant biomass+ Phenol, ﬂavonoid, glycine betaine contentand GTS+ GA, trans-zeatin-riboside, and IAA in seeds+ ATP content and hydrolytic activities ofplasma membrane ABA[108]Ephedra foliateClaroideoglomus etunicatum ,Rhizophagus intraradices , andFunneliformis mosseae+ Plant growth, chlorophyll content, nitrateand nitrite reductase activity, antioxidantactivity, and ascorbic acid content+ Content of proline, glucose, and totalsoluble protein+ Sucrose phosphate synthetase activity, IAA,IBA, GA, and ABA Glutathione level[109]Nicotiana tabacumGlomus versiforme + Phosphorussupplementation+ Osmolytes content, proline, sugars, and freeamino acids+ Antioxidant activities of SOD, CAT, APX,POD, and GR, and AsA and GSH content.+ IAA, ABA concentrations in roots and leaves. ROS accumulation and lipid peroxidation[110]Solanum lycopersicumGlomus sp.,Sclerocystis sp. andAcaulospora sp. + Acinetobacter sp.,and Rahnella aquatilis + compost+ Biomass, fruit number per plant, andfruit yield+ Sugar content on shoot PPO activity and increase of POD activity[111]Camellia sinensis Claroideoglomus etunicatum+ Plant growth and leaf water content+ Antioxidant activity as SOD, CAT, GPX,and APX+ Regulation of CsSODin and CsCAT genes O2 and MDA content[112]Vaccinium corymbosum Funneliformis mosseae+ Proteins involved in amino acid metabolism,antioxidant system, signal transduction,and photosynthesis+ Carotenoid biosynthesis+ Photosynthetic capacity[113]Malus hupehensis Rhizophagus irregularis+ Plant growth+ Total chlorophyll content, net photosyntheticrate, stomatal conductance, and transpiration+ SOD, POD, and CAT+ Proline and total sugar content Accumulation of MDA, H 2O2and O 2 [114]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 9 of 19Table 2. Cont.TCrop AMF + Complement Speciﬁc Effects ReferencePopulus cathayana Rhizophagus intraradices+ Plant biomass, root-to-root radio,photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance+ Intercellular CO 2concentration andtranspiration rate.+ SOD, POD, soluble sugar content especiallyon shoot+ Gene expression of PcGRF10 and PcGRF11genes induced by AMF[115]Pheonix dactyliferaAMF consortium + plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria(PGPR) consortium+ Plant biomass, rise of phosphorus uptake,and boosted plant-water relationship+ Total soluble sugar and protein content.+ Soil organic matter, phosphorus, andglomalin content H2O2and MDA accumulation[116]Solanum lycopersicumFunneliformis mosseae ,Rhizophagusirregularis and Funneliformiscoronatum H2O2and MDA content (especiallyF. mosseae )[117]Thymus daenensis andThymus bulgarisFunneliformis moseae andRhizophagus intraradices+ Root and shoot dry weight, relative watercontent, photosynthetic pigments, gas change,and nutritional parameters+ Essential oil production+ Root colonization and soil spore density Proline, MDA, electrolyte leakage, andstomatal resistance[118]Trifolium repens L.Funneliformis mosseae andParaglomus occultum+ Root total length, surface area, and volume+ Leaf relative water content+ SOD, CAT, POD, and ABA levels in root MDA content[119](+): Increase; (  ): Decrease; CAT: Catalase; SOD: Superoxide dismutase; POD: Peroxidase; APX: Ascorbate perosi-dase; GPX: Guaiacol peroxidase; GR: Glutation reductase; GTS: Glutation transferase; PPO: polyphenoloxidase;MDA: Malondialdehyde; AsA: Ascorbic Acid; AMF: Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi; IAA: Indole acetic acid;ABA: abscisic acid.On the other hand, the yeast microbial group has also been studied for their PGPcapacity. However, there are fewer studies compared to the groups described above, mainlyincluding some works exploring its PGP attributes under water stress conditions. Forinstance, Silambarasan et al. [ 7,18] demonstrated the ability of EPS produced by yeasts topromote the formation of stable aggregates and improve the storage of water in soil.Furthermore, recent evidence showed that yeast application can upregulate soil en-zymes under drought stress conditions, which increased the nutrient content in the soil,also improving the osmotic state of roots and the activity of antioxidant enzymes in theplants treated with the strains [ 63]. PGP microorganisms are undoubtedly a key element forthe adaptation of plants to new unfavorable environmental scenarios. Deepening studiesoriented to evaluate the interspecies synergistic potential of PGP microorganisms in thecurrent framework of climate change are required.4. The “Omics” Approaches and the Development of Optimized BioinoculantsAs stated above, the use of microorganism for improved drought tolerance has shownpromising results in different crops [ 120,121]. In this sense, rhizosphere engineering (modiﬁ-cation in the microbial rhizosphere community by known PGP microorganisms) representsa faster and more advantageous alternative to improve drought tolerance in crops thanother tools, such as genetic engineering or genetic improvement [122].The interaction of the newly added microorganisms with the rhizosphere is the ﬁrstbarrier to overpass to establish a relation with the already naturally present microbiome,and in the better situation, form a mutualistic and cooperative relationship [ 22,123]. Then,the newly formed microbiome interacts with the plant root and may produce an increase inthe physiological traits that allow the plant to confront the drought stress.Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 10 of 19This promotes, for instance, the formation of lateral roots [ 124], generates increases inhormone levels (ABA, cytokinin, and gibberellin) associated with increases in the watercontent and the hydric status of plant organs [ 125–127], improves the expression of osmoticadjustment systems (proline), and promotes the production of antioxidant enzymes [ 128],among others.However, a negative effect on the plant growth and development is also a possibil-ity [129]. The way how this microbial community increases the tolerance to abiotic stressis not completely understood yet. This gap in information is due to the complex mediawhere microbial communities are developing, which is the most complex compartmenton the Earth’s surface [ 24]. In this sense, understanding the interaction among microbialcommunities, plants, and the biotic and abiotic factors is an essential step to improve thedesign of bioinoculants [130,131].A modern approach to study this interaction is the use of “Omics” technologies, whichare also being applied in microbial science (Table 3). This set of new techniques allows tointegrate the information of genome, proteome, transcriptome, and metabolome and givesinformation about the biological changes that underlie the drought tolerance produced byadvanced bioinoculants [24,132].Table 3. Recent research regarding the use of PGP microorganisms and their effects on plant underdrought stress through omics approaches.Methods Used Approach Crop Microorganism Crop Effects ReferenceUPLC-QTOF MS Metabolomics Tritricum aestivumAcremoniumsclerotigenum ,Sarocladiumimplicatum+ Proline ABA Lipid peroxidation Malondialdehide Ferulic acid[133]RT-QPCR Genomic Oryza sativa L.Diverse PGPmicroorganism+ Soil enzyme activities(dehydrogenase, nitrogenase,urease, and alkaline phosphatase)+ Regulation of growth andstress-related genes (COX1,AP2-EREBP , GRAM, NRAMP6,NAM, GST, and DHN)[134]LS-MS/MS Metabolomics Ananas comosusConsortium ofStaphylococcus sp.+ Indole acetic acid+ ACC deaminase+ Promotion of plant growth[135]RT-QPCR Genomic Vigna mungo L.Ochrobactrumpseudogrignonense RJ12,Pseudomonas sp. RJ15,and Bacillus subtilis RJ46+ Seed germination, root length,shoot length, and dry weight oftreated plants Regulation of ACCdeaminase gene[136]RT-QPCR Genomic Pisum sativum L.Ochrobactrumpseudogrignonense RJ12,Pseudomonas sp. RJ15,and Bacillus subtilis RJ46+ Seed germination, root length,shoot length, and dry weight oftreated plants Regulation of ACCdeaminase gene[136]UHPLC-HDMS Metabolomics Zea maysBacillus licheniformis ,Brevibacilluslaterosporus , and Bacillusamyloliquefaciens+ Phenylpropanoid biosynthesis+ Glycine, serine, and threoninemetabolism+ Tyrosine metabolism+ TCA cycle metabolism[137]LC-ESI-QqQ-MS Metabolomics Zea maysBacillus licheniformis ,Brevibacilluslaterosporus , and Bacillusamyloliquefaciens+ Salicylic acid+ Indole-3-carboxylic acid+ Glycine, cysteine, and tyrosine+ Apigenin, apigetrin, and vicenin[138]RT-QPCR and Elisa Genomic Zea maysBacillus licheniformis ,Brevibacilluslaterosporus , and Bacillusamyloliquefaciens+ Global DNA methylation+ Regulation of PAL andFSNII gene[138](+):Increase; (  ): Decrease; ABA: abscisic acid; ACC: 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid; TCA: tricarboxylic acid.Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 11 of 19Metabolomics is based on tools that allow the identiﬁcation of the complete metabolitessynthesized by an organism and can be used for the determination of how this metabolicproﬁle changes in different conditions, such as drought stress [ 139]. The usual workﬂowto determine a metabolic proﬁle starts with sample acquisition, sample preparation, dataacquisition, bioinformatic analysis, and biochemical interpretation [140].The widely used techniques for separating and determining the metabolic proﬁlefrom different microorganisms are based on thin-layer chromatography (TLC), columnchromatography (CC), ﬂash chromatography (FC), gas chromatography coupled to massspectrometry (GC-MS), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), liquid chro-matography coupled to mass spectrometry (LC-MS and LC-MS/MS), liquid chromatogra-phy with ultraviolet, visible, ﬂuorescence, or diode array detection (LC-UV-VIS, LC-FD, orLC-DAD), gas–liquid chromatography, and Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), near-infrared(NIR), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopies [140,141].For example, the application of the metabolomics approach in the study of droughtcondition in the root of the trifoliate orange and the interaction with the AM fungusRhizophagus intraradices showed a total of 88 and 17 metabolites upregulated and down-regulated, respectively, also showing an improvement in the physiological status of themycorrhized plants [ 142]. In the same way, the use of metabolomics tools in the applicationof a consortium of Bacillus subtilis ,B. thuringiensis , and B. megaterium in chickpea showed anaccumulation of riboﬂavin, L-asparagine, aspartate, glycerol, nicotinamide, and 3-hydroxy-3-methyglutarate under drought condition, together with the reduction in the deleteriousimpact on the plant status [143].On the other hand, proteomics is the use of different technics that allows to determinethe complete contents of the different proteins present in an organism under speciﬁc cir-cumstances [ 144]. Proteomics analysis can be used in certain ways, such as for translationalproteomics, protein–protein interaction, post-translational modiﬁcation, and proteomicsstudies at a comparative level for the comparison of protein proﬁles, including droughtstress [141].The typical workﬂow of proteomics analysis starts with the extraction of proteins in aplant tissue of interest, digestion of proteins with speciﬁc enzymes into peptides and identi-ﬁcation of resulting peptides by mass spectrometry, quantiﬁcation of protein expression,and determination of post-translational modiﬁcations [ 145]. The widely used techniquesused for the study of proteomes include 1D and 2D gel electrophoresis, followed by massspectrometry with different ionization sources. Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionizationtime-of-ﬂight (MALDI-TOF MS/MS) and electrospray ionization (ESI) are the main massspectrometry tools used in proteomics approaches [141].With the use of proteomics approaches, it was possible to ﬁnd in pepper plantsinoculated with B. licheniformis K11 a total of 15 differential expressed proteins that confertolerance to drought stress [ 145]. Similar results were observed for the inoculation ofRhizobium leguminosarum and Pseudomonas putida toVicia faba , which produced changes inthe proteomic proﬁle with an improvement in the tolerance to drought stress [145].Genomics is the study of all genes present in an organism with the respective identiﬁ-cation of sequences, intragenic sequences, and genes structures [ 145]; meanwhile, transcrip-tomics is focused on the determination of the RNA present in the speciﬁc organs, which ishighly dependent on the speciﬁc environmental condition that makes the transcriptomichighly variable [ 146]. In this sense, the study of genomics allows to know the potential ofmicroorganisms to produce secondary metabolites or proteins to enhance the growth anddevelopment of drought tolerance with plant interaction.Furthermore, transcriptomics allows to determine how this genomic potential isexpressed under speciﬁc circumstances. In both cases, the starting point is the extraction ofthe nucleic acid, but for RNA, it is necessary to synthesize the cDNA and then sequenceit in a next-generation sequencing platform [ 141]. The use of the integrated genomic andtranscriptomic approach showed that some colonization genes such as FixL/FixK/FixJand NodD were upregulated in the presence of beneﬁcial microorganisms [ 147]. Moreover,Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 12 of 19there are several types of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) with the fullgenome assembly, which previously have shown an improvement in the plant tolerance todrought stress, such as B. amyloliquefaciens [148],Serratia plymuthica [149],Hartmannibacterdiazotrophicus [150], and Rhizophagus irregularis [151].The omics approaches still have important bottlenecks, such as the need of different,focused, and specialized researchers; and the gap in both information and integrationof data available in the worldwide databases (e.g., one-stop shop) [ 152]. Currently, dataintegration can be performed post-analysis by performing “networking” after individualanalyses [ 153] or carrying out an integrated data analysis in parallel. This last one requiresspecialized tools to merge data from different platforms prior to the ﬁnal interpretations ofthe results [ 132,154]. For instance, MetaboAnalyst allows for multiple integration of themetabolome, transcriptome, proteome, and genome into a wide spectrum of biologicalsamples, including plants [ 155], as well as data processing and statistical analyses based onthe R platform [132].Undoubtedly, the research possibilities with the incorporation of multi-omics ap-proaches will be a strong basis for the functional interpretation of the effects that advancedbiofertilizers have on their host plants. Based on the strong progress that these approacheshave had in other sciences (mainly medicine and human health), it is feasible to state thatthey may represent the starting point for the design of optimized biofertilizers in a widerange of plant species of agricultural and environmental interest.5. Perspectives and ConclusionsAs stated above, a large body of evidence highlights the role of speciﬁc microbialstrains within the main rhizosphere microbial groups in conferring drought tolerance toplants. However, much less known are the physiological, molecular, and biochemicalmechanisms and responses displayed by plants as a consequence of the presence and actionof these PGP microorganisms.In the case of yeasts, these microorganisms have very interesting PGP characteristicsthat have not been widely reported, especially regarding water stress. Nevertheless, recentstudies have demonstrated their great potential as coadjutants in plant growth to cope withother abiotic stresses. Such evidence makes us presume that yeasts can be a key elementwith a great biotechnological value that needs to be explored as a tool to face the foodshortage that promises to be accentuated with the advance of GCC.Therefore, the next steps for the designing of biofertilizers supported by the use ofmulti-omics approaches could represent a signiﬁcant leap in the research regarding therole of rhizosphere microbial communities in plant production under drought conditions.In this sense, the integration of omics platforms will strongly support the mechanisticunderstanding that underlies the use of beneﬁcial microorganisms in plant productionthrough rhizosphere engineering.While it is necessary to realistically recognize that the tangible results could primarilybe framed at the local level, considering particular soil conditions, rhizospheres, andcrop plants, the research at the pilot scale will establish the basis for the generation andmassiﬁcation of optimized biofertilizers. However, some considerations must be addressed,as the development of local biological collections for the ex situ maintenance of PGPmicrobes able to enhance drought tolerance represents a valuable resource for testing theirapplicability in different crops, in line with the global advice for the maintenance of geneticresources oriented to agriculture and food production [156].Moreover, the projection of the fundamental and mechanistic bases studied in theplant, considering different efﬁcient rhizosphere modiﬁcations, can also be focused ondifferent types of environmental stress, such as the low availability of nutrients, salinity,heavy metals, extreme pH values, and many other environmental and soil constraints thatcurrently affect enormous areas of arable land surfaces worldwide.Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 13 of 19Author Contributions: Conceptualization, C.V . and P .C.; investigation, C.V ., C.S. (Christian Santander) ,R.P ., V .G. and F.G.; writing—original draft preparation, C.V ., C.S. (Christian Santander), R.P ., V .G.,H.A. and F.G.; writing—review and editing, A.R., C.S. (Cledir Santos), H.A. and P .C.; visualization,C.V ., H.A. and P .C.; supervision, A.R., C.S. (Cledir Santos) and P .C. All authors have read and agreedto the published version of the manuscript.Funding: The work in the current research line was funded by ANID (Agencia Nacional de Investi-gación y Desarrollo, Chile) through the grants ANID/FONDECYT/1210964, ANID/FONDECYT/3210588, ANID/FONDECYT/3210752, ANID/FONDECYT/1221024, and ANID/FONDAP/15130015 .The authors also acknowledge the grant InES19-FRO19001 from the Ministerio de Educaci ón, Chile,executed by Universidad de La Frontera.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Acknowledgments: The authors want to thank to the anonymous reviewers for their careful read.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Garreaud, R.D.; Boisier, J.P .; Rondanelli, R.; Montecinos, A.; Sep úlveda, H.H.; Veloso-Aguila, D. The Central Chile Mega Drought(2010–2018): A Climate Dynamics Perspective. Int. J. Climatol. 2020 ,40, 421–439. [CrossRef]2. Malhi, G.S.; Kaur, M.; Kaushik, P . Impact of Climate Change on Agriculture and Its Mitigation Strategies: A Review. Sustainability2021 ,13, 1318. [CrossRef]3. Gerten, D.; Heck, V .; Jägermeyr, J.; Bodirsky, B.L.; Fetzer, I.; Jalava, M.; Kummu, M.; Lucht, W.; Rockström, J.; Schaphoff, S.; et al.Feeding Ten Billion People Is Possible within Four Terrestrial Planetary Boundaries. Nat. Sustain. 2020 ,3, 200–208. [CrossRef]4. ODEPA. Reﬂexiones y Desaf íos Al 2030 ; Apey, A., Barrera, D., Rivas, T., Eds.; ODEPA: Santiago, Chile, 2018; ISBN 9789567244300.5. Santander, C.; Aroca, R.; Ruiz-Lozano, J.M.; Olave, J.; Cartes, P .; Borie, F.; Cornejo, P . Arbuscular Mycorrhiza Effects on PlantPerformance under Osmotic Stress. Mycorrhiza 2017 ,27, 639–657. [CrossRef]6. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Cornejo, P .; Abraham, J.; Valentine, A. Simultaneous Mitigation of Aluminum, Salinityand Drought Stress in Lactuca Sativa Growth via Formulated Plant Growth Promoting Rhodotorula mucilaginosa CAM4.Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2019 ,180, 63–72. [CrossRef] [PubMed]7. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Cornejo, P .; Kannan, V .R. Role of Plant Growth–promoting Rhizobacterial Consortium inImproving the Vigna radiata Growth and Alleviation of Aluminum and Drought Stresses. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2019 ,26,27647–27659. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Valentine, A.; Cornejo, P . Role of Curtobacterium herbarum Strain CAH5 on Aluminum Bioac-cumulation and Enhancement of Lactuca sativa Growth under Aluminum and Drought Stresses. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2019 ,183, 109573. [CrossRef]9. Rojas, M.; Lambert, F.; Ramirez-Villegas, J.; Challinor, A.J. Emergence of Robust Precipitation Changes across Crop ProductionAreas in the 21st Century. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2019 ,116, 6673–6678. [CrossRef]10. Bashan, Y.; de-Bashan, L.E.; Prabhu, S.R.; Hernandez, J.P . Advances in Plant Growth-Promoting Bacterial Inoculant Technology:Formulations and Practical Perspectives (1998–2013). Plant Soil 2014 ,378, 1–33. [CrossRef]11. Jacoby, R.; Peukert, M.; Succurro, A.; Koprivova, A.; Kopriva, S. The Role of Soil Microorganisms in Plant MineralNutrition—Current Knowledge and Future Directions. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1617. [CrossRef]12. Cornejo, P .; Seguel, A.; Aguilera, P .; Meier, S.; Larsen, J.; Borie, F. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Improve Tolerance of Agri-cultural Plants to Cope Abiotic Stress Conditions BT. In Plant-Microbe Interactions in Agro-Ecological Perspectives: MicrobialInteractions and Agro-Ecological Impacts ; Singh, D.P ., Singh, H.B., Prabha, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2017; Volume 2, pp. 55–80,ISBN 978-981-10-6593-4.13. Campos, P .; Borie, F.; Cornejo, P .; L ópez-R áez, J.A.; L ópez-Garc ía,Á.; Seguel, A. Phosphorus Acquisition Efﬁciency Related toRoot Traits: Is Mycorrhizal Symbiosis a Key Factor to Wheat and Barley Cropping? Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 752. [CrossRef][PubMed]14. Borie, F.; Aguilera, P .; Castillo, C.; Valentine, A.; Seguel, A.; Barea, J.M.; Cornejo, P . Revisiting the Nature of Phosphorus Pools inChilean Volcanic Soils as a Basis for Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Management in Plant P Acquisition. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2019 ,19,390–401. [CrossRef]15. Barea, J.M.; Palenzuela, J.; Cornejo, P .; S ánchez-Castro, I.; Navarro-Fern ández, C.; Lop éz-Garc ía, A.; Estrada, B.; Azc ón, R.;Ferrol, N .; Azc ón-Aguilar, C. Ecological and Functional Roles of Mycorrhizas in Semi-Arid Ecosystems of Southeast Spain. J. AridEnviron. 2011 ,75, 1292–1301. [CrossRef]16. Seguel, A.; Cumming, J.R.; Klugh-Stewart, K.; Cornejo, P .; Borie, F. The Role of Arbuscular Mycorrhizas in Decreasing AluminiumPhytotoxicity in Acidic Soils: A Review. Mycorrhiza 2013 ,23, 167–183. [CrossRef]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 14 of 1917. Seguel, A.; Meier, F.; Azc ón, R.; Valentine, A.; Meriño-Gergichevich, C.; Cornejo, P .; Aguilera, P .; Borie, F. Showing Their Mettle:Extraradical Mycelia of Arbuscular Mycorrhizae Form a Metal Filter to Improve Host Al Tolerance and P Nutrition. J. Sci. FoodAgric. 2020 ,100, 803–810. [CrossRef]18. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Cornejo, P .; Kannan, V .R. Evaluation of the Production of Exopolysaccharide by Plant GrowthPromoting Yeast Rhodotorula sp. Strain CAH2 under Abiotic Stress Conditions. Int. J. Biol. Macromol. 2019 ,121, 55–62. [CrossRef]19. Durán, P .; Acuña, J.J.; Jorquera, M.A.; Azc ón, R.; Borie, F.; Cornejo, P .; Mora, M.L. Enhanced Selenium Content in Wheat Grainby Co-Inoculation of Selenobacteria and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi: A Preliminary Study as a Potential Se BiofortiﬁcationStrategy. J. Cereal Sci. 2013 ,57, 275–280. [CrossRef]20. Durán, P .; Acuña, J.J.; Armada, E.; L ópez-Castillo, O.M.; Cornejo, P .; Mora, M.L.; Azc ón, R. Inoculation with Selenobacteria andArbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi to Enhance Selenium Content in Lettuce Plants and Improve Tolerance against Drought Stress.J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2016 ,16, 201–225. [CrossRef]21. Larsen, J.; Cornejo, P .; Barea, J.M. Interactions between the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungus Glomus intraradices and the PlantGrowth Promoting Rhizobacteria Paenibacillus polymyxa and P . macerans in the Mycorrhizosphere of Cucumis sativus .Soil Biol.Biochem. 2009 ,41, 286–292. [CrossRef]22. Großkopf, T.; Soyer, O.S. Synthetic Microbial Communities. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2014 ,18, 72–77. [CrossRef]23. Guerrero-Molina, M.F.; Lovaisa, N.C.; Salazar, S.M.; Mart ínez-Zamora, M.G.; D íaz-Ricci, J.C.; Pedraza, R.O. Physiological,Structural and Molecular Traits Activated in Strawberry Plants after Inoculation with the Plant Growth-Promoting BacteriumAzospirillum brasilense REC3. Plant Biol. 2015 ,17, 766–773. [CrossRef] [PubMed]24. White, R.A.; Rivas-Ubach, A.; Borkum, M.I.; Köberl, M.; Bilbao, A.; Colby, S.M.; Hoyt, D.W.; Bingol, K.; Kim, Y.M.;Wendler, J.P .; et al. The State of Rhizospheric Science in the Era of Multi-Omics: A Practical Guide to Omics Technologies.Rhizosphere 2017 ,3, 212–221. [CrossRef]25. Reddy, P .P . Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria for Horticultural Crop Protection ; Springer India: New Delhi, India, 2014;pp. 978–981.26. Gomiero, T. Soil Degradation, Land Scarcity and Food Security: Reviewing a Complex Challenge. Sustainability 2016 ,8, 281.[CrossRef]27. Godfray, H.C.J.; Crute, I.R.; Haddad, L.; Muir, J.F.; Nisbett, N.; Lawrence, D.; Pretty, J.; Robinson, S.; Toulmin, C.; Whiteley, R. TheFuture of the Global Food System. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 2010 ,365, 2769–2777. [CrossRef]28. Watts, G.; Battarbee, R.W.; Bloomﬁeld, J.P .; Crossman, J.; Daccache, A.; Durance, I.; Elliott, J.A.; Garner, G.; Hannaford, J.;Hannah, D.M.; et al . Climate Change and Water in the UK—Past Changes and Future Prospects. Prog. Phys. Geogr. 2015 ,39, 6–28.[CrossRef]29. Mansﬁeld, L.A.; Nowack, P .J.; Kasoar, M.; Everitt, R.G.; Collins, W.J.; Voulgarakis, A. Predicting Global Patterns of Long-TermClimate Change from Short-Term Simulations Using Machine Learning. Npj Clim. Atmospheric Sci. 2020 ,3, 44–52. [CrossRef]30. Molden, D. Water for Food Water for Life: A Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture ; International WaterManagement Institute: London, UK, 2007; 664p, ISBN 9781844073962.31. Lobell, D.B.; Schlenker, W.; Costa-Roberts, J. Climate Trends and Global Crop Production since 1980. Science 2011 ,333, 616–620.[CrossRef]32. Osakabe, Y.; Osakabe, K.; Shinozaki, K.; Tran, L.S.P . Response of Plants to Water Stress. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 86. [CrossRef]33. Daryanto, S.; Wang, L.; Jacinthe, P .A. Drought Effects on Root and Tuber Production: A Meta-Analysis. Agric. Water Manag. 2016 ,176, 122–131. [CrossRef]34. Seleiman, M.F.; Al-Suhaibani, N.; Ali, N.; Akmal, M.; Alotaibi, M.; Refay, Y.; Dindaroglu, T.; Abdul-wajid, H.H.; Battaglia, M.L.Drought Stress Impacts on Plants and Different Approaches to Alleviate Its Adverse Effects. Plants 2021 ,10, 259. [CrossRef]35. Shao, H.B.; Chu, L.Y.; Jaleel, C.A.; Zhao, C.X. Water-Deﬁcit Stress-Induced Anatomical Changes in Higher Plants. Comptes Rendus.Biol. 2008 ,331, 215–225. [CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Bhargava, S.; Sawant, K. Drought Stress Adaptation: Metabolic Adjustment and Regulation of Gene Expression. Plant Breed. 2013 ,132, 21–32. [CrossRef]37. dos Santos, T.B.; Ribas, A.F.; de Souza, S.G.H.; Budzinski, I.G.F.; Domingues, D.S. Physiological Responses to Drought, Salinity,and Heat Stress in Plants: A Review. Stresses 2022 ,2, 113–135. [CrossRef]38. Lisar, S.Y.; Motafakkerazad, R.; Hossain, M.M.; Rahman, I.M. Water Stress in Plants: Causes, Effects and Responses. In WaterStress ; InTech: Rijeka, Croatia, 2012; pp. 1–14, ISBN 978-953-307-963-9.39. Fang, Y.; Xiong, L. General Mechanisms of Drought Response and Their Application in Drought Resistance Improvement inPlants. Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 2015 ,72, 673–689. [CrossRef]40. Farooq, M.; Wahid, A.; Kobayashi, N.; Fujita, D.; Basra, S.M.A. Plant Drought Stress: Effects, Mechanisms and Management. InSustainable Agriculture ; Lichtfouse, E., Navarrete, M., Debaeke, P ., V éronique, S., Alberola, C., Eds.; Springer: Dordrecht, TheNetherlands, 2009; pp. 153–188. [CrossRef]41. Khan, H.A.; Ziaf, K.; Amjad, M.; Iqbal, Q. Exogenous Application of Polyamines Improves Germination and Early SeedlingGrowth of Hot Pepper. Chil. J. Agric. Res. 2012 ,72, 429–433. [CrossRef]42. Nakashima, K.; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki, K.; Shinozaki, K. The Transcriptional Regulatory Network in the Drought Response andIts Crosstalk in Abiotic Stress Responses Including Drought, Cold, and Heat. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 170. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 15 of 1943. Naylor, D.; Coleman-Derr, D. Drought Stress and Root-Associated Bacterial Communities. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,8, 2223.[CrossRef] [PubMed]44. Cavicchioli, R.; Ripple, W.J.; Timmis, K.N.; Azam, F.; Bakken, L.R.; Baylis, M.; Behrenfeld, M.J.; Boetius, A.; Boyd, P .W.;Classen, A.T. ; et al. Scientists’ Warning to Humanity: Microorganisms and Climate Change. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2019 ,17, 569–586.[CrossRef]45. Molina-Montenegro, M.A.; Ballesteros, G.I.; Castro-Nallar, E.; Meneses, C.; Gallardo-Cerda, J.; Torres-D íaz, C. A First Insightinto the Structure and Function of Rhizosphere Microbiota in Antarctic Plants Using Shotgun Metagenomic. Polar Biol. 2019 ,42,1825–1835. [CrossRef]46. Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola, O.O.; Prigent-Combaret, C.; Cruz, C.; Stefan, M.; Kutu, F.; Glick, B.R. The Application of Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria in Solanum lycopersicum Production in the Agricultural System: A Review. PeerJ 2022 ,10, e13405 .[CrossRef]47. Kong, Z.; Liu, H. Modiﬁcation of Rhizosphere Microbial Communities: A Possible Mechanism of Plant Growth PromotingRhizobacteria Enhancing Plant Growth and Fitness. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 920813. [CrossRef] [PubMed]48. Hakim, S.; Naqqash, T.; Nawaz, M.S.; Laraib, I.; Siddique, M.J.; Zia, R.; Mirza, M.S.; Imran, A. Rhizosphere Engineering withPlant Growth-Promoting Microorganisms for Agriculture and Ecological Sustainability. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2021 ,5, 617157.[CrossRef]49. Hassan, M.K.; McInroy, J.A.; Kloepper, J.W. The Interactions of Rhizodeposits with Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria in theRhizosphere: A Review. Agriculture 2019 ,9, 142. [CrossRef]50. Jamil, F.; Mukhtar, H.; Fouillaud, M.; Dufoss é, L. Rhizosphere Signaling: Insights into Plant–Rhizomicrobiome Interactions forSustainable Agronomy. Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 899. [CrossRef] [PubMed]51. Mhlongo, M.I.; Piater, L.A.; Madala, N.E.; Labuschagne, N.; Dubery, I.A. The Chemistry of Plant–microbe Interac-tions in theRhizosphere and the Potential for Metabolomics to Reveal Signaling Related to Defense Priming and Induced Systemic Resistance.Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 112. [CrossRef]52. Backer, R.; Rokem, J.S.; Ilangumaran, G.; Lamont, J.; Praslickova, D.; Ricci, E.; Subramanian, S.; Smith, D.L. Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria: Context, Mechanisms of Action, and Roadmap to Commercialization of Biostimulants for SustainableAgriculture. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,871, 1473. [CrossRef] [PubMed]53. Simon, J.; Marchesi, J.R.; Mougel, C.; Selosse, M. Host-Microbiota Interactions: From Holobiont Theory to Analysis. Microbiome2019 ,7, 5. [CrossRef]54. Li, E.; de Jonge, R.; Liu, C.; Jiang, H.; Friman, V .P .; Pieterse, C.M.J.; Bakker, P .A.H.M.; Jousset, A. Rapid Evolution of Bacte-rialMutualism in the Plant Rhizosphere. Nat. Commun. 2021 ,12, 3829. [CrossRef]55. Asghari, B.; Khademian, R.; Sedaghati, B. Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) Confer Drought Resistance andStimulate Biosynthesis of Secondary Metabolites in Pennyroyal ( Mentha pulegium L.) under Water Shortage Condition. Sci. Hortic.2020 ,263, 109132. [CrossRef]56. Jansson, J.K.; Hofmockel, K.S. Soil Microbiomes and Climate Change. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2020 ,18, 35–46. [CrossRef]57. Bettenfeld, P .; Cadena i Canals, J.; Jacquens, L.; Fernandez, O.; Fontaine, F.; van Schaik, E.; Courty, P .E.; Trouvelot, S. TheMicrobiota of the Grapevine Holobiont: A Key Component of Plant Health. J. Adv. Res. 2022 ,40, 1–15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]58. Wahdan, S.F.M.; Tanunchai, B.; Wu, Y.T.; Sansupa, C.; Schädler, M.; Dawoud, T.M.; Buscot, F.; Purahong, W. Deciphering TrifoliumPratense, L. Holobiont Reveals a Microbiome Resilient to Future Climate Changes. MicrobiologyOpen 2021 ,10, e1217. [CrossRef][PubMed]59. Govindasamy, V .; George, P .; Kumar, M.; Aher, L.; Raina, S.K.; Rane, J.; Annapurna, K.; Minhas, P .S. Multi-Trait PGP Rhi-zobacterial Endophytes Alleviate Drought Stress in a Senescent Genotype of Sorghum [ Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. 3 Biotech2020 ,10, 13. [CrossRef] [PubMed]60. Scagliola, M.; Valentinuzzi, F.; Mimmo, T.; Cesco, S.; Crecchio, C.; Pii, Y. Bioinoculants as Promising Complement of Chem-icalFertilizers for a More Sustainable Agricultural Practice. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2021 ,4, 622169. [CrossRef]61. Jansson, C.; Faiola, C.; Wingler, A.; Zhu, X.G.; Kravchenko, A.; de Graaff, M.A.; Ogden, A.J.; Handakumbura, P .P .; Werner, C.;Beckles, D.M. Crops for Carbon Farming. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 636709. [CrossRef]62. Tang, A.; Haruna, A.O.; Majid, N.M.A.; Jalloh, M.B. Potential PGPR Properties of Cellulolytic, Nitrogen-Fixing, Phos-phate-Solubilizing Bacteria in Rehabilitated Tropical Forest Soil. Microorganisms 2020 ,8, 442. [CrossRef]63. Alzandi, A.A.; Naguib, D.M. Effect of Yeast Application on Soil Health and Root Metabolic Status of Corn Seedlings underDrought Stress. Arch. Microbiol. 2022 ,204, 233. [CrossRef]64. Bender, S.F.; Wagg, C.; van der Heijden, M.G.A. An Underground Revolution: Biodiversity and Soil Ecological Engineering forAgricultural Sustainability. Trends Ecol. Evol. 2016 ,31, 440–452. [CrossRef]65. Cornejo, P .; P érez-Tienda, J.; Meier, S.; Valderas, A.; Borie, F.; Azc ón-Aguilar, C.; Ferrol, N. Copper Compartmentalization inSpores as a Survival Strategy of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Cu-Polluted Environments. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2013 ,57, 925–928.[CrossRef]66. Santander, C.; Ruiz, A.; Garc ía, S.; Aroca, R.; Cumming, J.; Cornejo, P . Efﬁciency of Two Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Inoculato Improve Saline Stress Tolerance in Lettuce Plants by Changes of Antioxidant Defense Mechanisms. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2020 ,100,1577–1587. [CrossRef]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 16 of 1967. Aponte, H.; Herrera, W.; Cameron, C.; Black, H.; Meier, S.; Paolini, J.; Tapia, Y.; Cornejo, P . Alteration of Enzyme Activities andFunctional Diversity of a Soil Contaminated with Copper and Arsenic. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2020 ,192, 110264. [CrossRef][PubMed]68. Durán, P .; Viscardi, S.; Acuña, J.J.; Cornejo, P .; Azc ón, R.; de la Luz Mora, M. Endophytic Selenobacteria and ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungus for Selenium Biofortiﬁcation and Gaeumannomyces graminis Biocontrol. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2018 ,18,1021–1035. [CrossRef]69. Ma, Y.; Rajkumar, M.; Zhang, C.; Freitas, H. Inoculation of Brassica Oxyrrhina with Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria for theImprovement of Heavy Metal Phytoremediation under Drought Conditions. J. Hazard. Mater. 2016 ,320, 36–44. [CrossRef]70. Banik, A.; Pandya, P .; Patel, B.; Rathod, C.; Dangar, M. Characterization of Halotolerant, Pigmented, Plant Growth Promot-ingBacteria of Groundnut Rhizosphere and Its in-Vitro Evaluation of Plant-Microbe Protocooperation to Withstand Salinity andMetal Stress. Sci. Total Environ. 2018 ,630, 231–242. [CrossRef] [PubMed]71. Meier, S.; Alvear, M.; Borie, F.; Aguilera, P .; Ginocchio, R.; Cornejo, P . Inﬂuence of Copper on Root Exudate Patterns in SomeMetallophytes and Agricultural Plants. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2012 ,75, 8–15. [CrossRef]72. de la Luz Mora, M.; Demanet, R.; Acuña, J.J.; Viscardi, S.; Jorquera, M.; Rengel, Z.; Dur án, P . Aluminum-Tolerant Bacteria Improvethe Plant Growth and Phosphorus Content in Ryegrass Grown in a Volcanic Soil Amended with Cattle Dung Manure. Appl. SoilEcol. 2017 ,115, 19–26. [CrossRef]73. Sarabia, M.; Cornejo, P .; Azc ón, R.; Carre ón-Abud, Y.; Larsen, J. Mineral Phosphorus Fertilization Modulates Interactions betweenMaize, Rhizosphere Yeasts and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi. Rhizosphere 2017 ,4, 89–93. [CrossRef]74. Aguilera, P .; Larsen, J.; Borie, F.; Berr íos, D.; Tapia, C.; Cornejo, P . New Evidences on the Contribution of Arbuscular My-corrhizalFungi Inducing Al Tolerance in Wheat. Rhizosphere 2018 ,5, 43–50. [CrossRef]75. Chávez, D.; Machuca, Á.; Fuentes-Ramirez, A.; Fernandez, N.; Cornejo, P . Shifts in Soil Traits and Arbuscular MycorrhizalSymbiosis Represent the Conservation Status of Araucaria araucana Forests and the Effects after Fire Events. For. Ecol. Manag.2020 ,458, 117806. [CrossRef]76. Ademar Avelar Ferreira, P .; Ceretta, C.A.; Hildebrand Soriani, H.; Luiz Tiecher, T.; Fons êca Sousa Soares, C.R.; Rossato, L.V .;Nicoloso, F.T.; Brunetto, G.; Paranhos, J.T.; Cornejo, P . Rhizophagus clarus and Phosphate Alter the Physiological Re-sponses ofCrotalaria juncea Cultivated in Soil with a High Cu Level. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2015 ,91, 37–47. [CrossRef]77. Griebenow, S.; Zuniga-Feest, A.; Muñoz, G.; Cornejo, P .; Kleinert, A.; Valentine, A. Photosynthetic Metabolism during Phos-phateLimitation in a Legume from the Mediterranean-Type Fynbos Ecosystem. J. Plant Physiol. 2019 ,243, 153051. [CrossRef]78. Cornejo, P .; Rubio, R.; Castillo, C.; Azc ón, R.; Borie, F. Mycorrhizal Effectiveness on Wheat Nutrient Acquisition in an Acidic Soilfrom Southern Chile as Affected by Nitrogen Sources. J. Plant Nutr. 2008 ,31, 1555–1569. [CrossRef]79. Seguel, A.; Cornejo, P .; Ramos, A.; Von Baer, E.; Cumming, J.; Borie, F. Phosphorus Acquisition by Three Wheat CultivarsContrasting in Aluminium Tolerance Growing in an Aluminium-Rich Volcanic Soil. Crop Pasture Sci. 2017 ,68, 305–316. [CrossRef]80. Meier, S.; Azc ón, R.; Cartes, P .; Borie, F.; Cornejo, P . Alleviation of Cu Toxicity in Oenothera picensis by Copper-AdaptedArbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi and Treated Agrowaste Residue. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2011 ,48, 117–124. [CrossRef]81. Parada, J.; Valenzuela, T.; G ómez, F.; Tereuc án, G.; Garc ía, S.; Cornejo, P .; Winterhalter, P .; Ruiz, A. Effect of Fertilization andArbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Inoculation on Antioxidant Proﬁles and Activities in Fragaria ananassa Fruit. J. Sci. Food Agric.2019 ,99, 1397–1404. [CrossRef]82. Ruiz, A.; Sanhueza, M.; G ómez, F.; Tereuc án, G.; Valenzuela, T.; Garc ía, S.; Cornejo, P .; Hermos ín-Guti érrez, I. Changes in theContent of Anthocyanins, Flavonols, and Antioxidant Activity in Fragaria ananassa Var. Camarosa Fruits under Tradi-tional andOrganic Fertilization. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2019 ,99, 2404–2410. [CrossRef]83. Aguilera, A.; Tereuc án, G.; Ercoli, S.; Cornejo, P .; Gomez, M.R.; Uhlmann, L.; Guigas, C.; Esatbeyoglu, T.; Ruiz, A. Inﬂuenceof Organic and Chemical Fertilisation on Antioxidant Compounds Proﬁles and Activities in Fruits of Fragaria ananassa Var.Camarosa. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2020 ,20, 715–724. [CrossRef]84. Bandeppa; Paul, S.; Aggarwal, C.; Manjunatha, B.S.; Rathi, M.S. Characterization of Osmotolerant Rhizobacteria for Plant GrowthPromoting Activities in Vitro and during Plant-Microbe Association under Osmotic Stress. Indian J. Exp. Biol 2018 ,56, 582–589.85. Singh, N.P .; Singh, R.K.; Meena, V .S.; Meena, R.K. Can We Use Maize ( Zea mays ) Rhizobacteria as Plant Growth Promoter? Vegetos2015 ,28, 86–99. [CrossRef]86. Yadav, A.N. Agriculturally Important Micro Biomes: Biodiversity and Multifarious PGP Attributes for Amelioration of Di-verseAbiotic Stresses in Crops for Sustainable Agriculture. Biomed. J. Sci. Tech. Res. 2017 ,1, 861–864. [CrossRef]87. Yadav, A.N.; Kumar, R.; Kumar, S.; Kumar, V .; Sugitha, T.C.K.; Singh, B.; Chauahan, V .S.; Dhaliwal, H.S.; Saxena, A.K. BeneﬁcialMicrobiomes: Biodiversity and Potential Biotechnological Applications for Sustainable Agriculture and Human Health. J. Appl.Biol. Biotechnol. 2017 ,5, 45–57. [CrossRef]88. Yadav, A.N.; Kumar, V .; Dhaliwal, H.S.; Prasad, R.; Saxena, A.K. Microbiome in Crops: Diversity, Distribution, and Poten-tial Rolein Crop Improvement. In New and Future Developments in Microbial Biotechnology and Bioengineering ; Elsevier: Amsterdam, TheNetherlands, 2018; pp. 305–332, ISBN 9780444639882.89. Kour, D.; Rana, K.L.; Kaur, T.; Sheikh, I.; Yadav, A.N.; Kumar, V .; Dhaliwal, H.S.; Saxena, A.K. Microbe-Mediated Allevia-tionof Drought Stress and Acquisition of Phosphorus in Great Millet ( Sorghum bicolor L.) by Drought-Adaptive and Phos-phorus-Solubilizing Microbes. Biocatal. Agric. Biotechnol. 2020 ,23, 101501. [CrossRef]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 17 of 1990. Chukwuneme, C.F.; Babalola, O.O.; Kutu, F.R.; Ojuederie, O.B. Characterization of Actinomycetes Isolates for Plant GrowthPromoting Traits and Their Effects on Drought Tolerance in Maize. J. Plant Interact. 2020 ,15, 93–105. [CrossRef]91. Ansari, F.A.; Jabeen, M.; Ahmad, I. Pseudomonas Azotoformans FAP5, a Novel Bioﬁlm-Forming PGPR Strain, Alleviates DroughtStress in Wheat Plant. Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2021 ,18, 3855–3870. [CrossRef]92. Dubey, A.; Saiyam, D.; Kumar, A.; Hashem, A.; Abduallah, E.F.; Khan, M.L. Bacterial Root Endophytes: Characterization of TheirCompetence and Plant Growth Promotion in Soybean ( Glycine max (L.) Merr.) under Drought Stress. Int. J. Environ. Res. PublicHealth 2021 ,18, 931. [CrossRef] [PubMed]93. Devarajan, A.K.; Muthukrishanan, G.; Truu, J.; Truu, M.; Ostonen, I.; Subramanian Kizhaeral, S.; Panneerselvam, P .;Go-palasubramanian, S.K . The Foliar Application of Rice Phyllosphere Bacteria Induces Drought-Stress Tolerance in Oryza sativa(L.). Plants 2021 ,10, 387. [CrossRef]94. Sood, G.; Kaushal, R.; Sharma, M. Alleviation of Drought Stress in Maize ( Zea mays L.) by Using Endogenous Endophyte Bacillussubtilis in North West Himalayas. Acta Agric. Scand. Sect. B Soil Plant Sci. 2020 ,70, 361–370. [CrossRef]95. Abbasi, S.; Sadeghi, A.; Safaie, N. Streptomyces Alleviate Drought Stress in Tomato Plants and Modulate the Expression ofTranscription Factors ERF1 and WRKY70 Genes. Sci. Hortic. 2020 ,265, 109206. [CrossRef]96. Khan, A.; Singh, A.V . Multifarious Effect of ACC Deaminase and EPS Producing Pseudomonas sp. and Serratia marcescens toAugment Drought Stress Tolerance and Nutrient Status of Wheat. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2021 ,37, 198. [CrossRef]97. Karimzadeh, J.; Alikhani, H.A.; Etesami, H.; Pourbabaei, A.A. Improved Phosphorus Uptake by Wheat Plant ( Triticum aes-tivumL.) with Rhizosphere Fluorescent Pseudomonads Strains Under Water-Deﬁcit Stress. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2021 ,40, 162–178.[CrossRef]98. Pang, Z.; Zhao, Y.; Xu, P .; Yu, D. Microbial Diversity of Upland Rice Roots and Their Inﬂuence on Rice Growth and DroughtTolerance. Microorganisms 2020 ,8, 1329. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Chandra, D.; Srivastava, R.; Glick, B.R.; Sharma, A.K. Rhizobacteria Producing ACC Deaminase Mitigate Water-Stress Re-sponsein Finger Millet ( Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.). 3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 65. [CrossRef] [PubMed]100. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Vangnai, A.S.; Kamaraj, B.; Cornejo, P . Plant Growth-Promoting Actinobacterial InoculantAssisted Phytoremediation Increases Cadmium Uptake in Sorghum bicolor under Drought and Heat Stresses. Environ. Pollut.2022 ,307, 119489. [CrossRef] [PubMed]101. Mathur, S.; Tomar, R.S.; Jajoo, A. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) Protects Photosynthetic Apparatus of Wheat underDrought Stress. Photosynth. Res. 2019 ,139, 227–238. [CrossRef]102. Mathur, S.; Sharma, M.P .; Jajoo, A. Improved Photosynthetic Efﬁcacy of Maize ( Zea mays ) Plants with Arbuscular Mycor-rhizalFungi (AMF) under High Temperature Stress. J. Photochem. Photobiol. B Biol. 2018 ,180, 149–154. [CrossRef]103. Cornejo, P .; Meier, S.; Borie, G.; Rillig, M.C.; Borie, F. Glomalin-Related Soil Protein in a Mediterranean Ecosystem Affected by aCopper Smelter and Its Contribution to Cu and Zn Sequestration. Sci. Total Environ. 2008 ,406, 154–160. [CrossRef]104. Santander, C.; Vidal, G.; Ruiz, A.; Vidal, C.; Cornejo, P . Salinity Eustress Increases the Biosynthesis and Accumulation of PhenolicCompounds That Improve the Functional and Antioxidant Quality of Red Lettuce. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 598. [CrossRef]105. Sheteiwy, M.S.; Ali, D.F.I.; Xiong, Y.C.; Brestic, M.; Skalicky, M.; Hamoud, Y.A.; Ulhassan, Z.; Shaghaleh, H.; AbdElgawad, H.;Farooq, M.; et al. Physiological and Biochemical Responses of Soybean Plants Inoculated with Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi andBradyrhizobium under Drought Stress. BMC Plant Biol. 2021 ,21, 195. [CrossRef]106. Cheng, H.Q.; Zou, Y.N.; Wu, Q.S.; Kuˇ ca, K. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Alleviate Drought Stress in Trifoliate Orange byRegulating H+-ATPase Activity and Gene Expression. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 659694. [CrossRef]107. Zhang, F.; Zou, Y.N.; Wu, Q.S.; Kuˇ ca, K. Arbuscular Mycorrhizas Modulate Root Polyamine Metabolism to Enhance DroughtTolerance of Trifoliate Orange. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,171, 103926. [CrossRef]108. Sheteiwy, M.S.; Abd Elgawad, H.; Xiong, Y.C.; Macovei, A.; Brestic, M.; Skalicky, M.; Shaghaleh, H.; Alhaj Hamoud, Y.; El-Sawah,A.M. Inoculation with Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Mycorrhiza Confers Tolerance to Drought Stress and Improve Seed Yieldand Quality of Soybean Plant. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 2153–2169. [CrossRef] [PubMed]109. Al-Arjani, A.B.F.; Hashem, A.; Abd_Allah, E.F. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Modulates Dynamics Tolerance Expression toMitigate Drought Stress in Ephedra foliata Boiss. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 2020 ,27, 380–394. [CrossRef]110. Begum, N.; Ahanger, M.A.; Zhang, L. AMF Inoculation and Phosphorus Supplementation Alleviates Drought Induced Growthand Photosynthetic Decline in Nicotiana tabacum by Up-Regulating Antioxidant Metabolism and Osmolyte Accumulation.Environ. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,176, 104088. [CrossRef]111. Tahiri, A.-I.; Meddich, A.; Raklami, A.; Alahmad, A.; Bechtaoui, N.; Anli, M.; Göttfert, M.; Heulin, T.; Achouak, W.; Oufdou, K.Assessing the Potential Role of Compost, PGPR, and AMF in Improving Tomato Plant Growth, Yield, Fruit Quality, and WaterStress Tolerance. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2022 ,22, 743–764. [CrossRef]112. Liu, C.Y.; Wang, Y.J.; Wu, Q.S.; Yang, T.Y.; Kuˇ ca, K. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Improve the Antioxidant Capacity of Tea(Camellia sinensis ) Seedlings under Drought Stress. Not. Bot. Horti. Agrobot. Cluj-Napoca 2020 ,48, 1993–2005. [CrossRef]113. Gui, L.X.; Lu, S.S.; Chen, Q.; Yang, L.; Xiao, J.X. ITRAQ-Based Proteomic Analysis Reveals Positive Impacts of ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungi Inoculation on Photosynthesis and Drought Tolerance in Blueberry. Trees—Struct. Funct. 2021 ,35, 81–92.[CrossRef]114. Huang, D.; Ma, M.; Wang, Q.; Zhang, M.; Jing, G.; Li, C.; Ma, F. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Enhanced Drought Re-sistance inApple by Regulating Genes in the MAPK Pathway. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,149, 245–255. [CrossRef]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 18 of 19115. Han, Y.; Lou, X.; Zhang, W.; Xu, T.; Tang, M. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Enhanced Drought Resistance of Populus cathayanaby Regulating the 14-3-3 Family Protein Genes. Microbiol. Spectr. 2022 ,10, e02456-21. [CrossRef]116. Akensous, F.Z.; Anli, M.; Boutasknit, A.; Ben-Laouane, R.; Ait-Rahou, Y.; Ben Ahmed, H.; Nasri, N.; Haﬁdi, M.; Meddich, A.Boosting Date Palm ( Phoenix dactylifera L.) Growth under Drought Stress: Effects of Innovative Biostimulants. Gesunde Pﬂanz.2022; in press . [CrossRef]117. Haddidi, I.; Duc, N.H.; Tonk, S.; R ápó, E.; Posta, K. Defense Enzymes in Mycorrhizal Tomato Plants Exposed to CombinedDrought and Heat Stresses. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 1657. [CrossRef]118. Arpanahi, A.A.; Feizian, M.; Mehdipourian, G.; Khojasteh, D.N. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Inoculation Improve Essen-tialOil and Physiological Parameters and Nutritional Values of Thymus daenensis Celak and Thymus vulgaris L. under Normal andDrought Stress Conditions. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 2020 ,100, 103217. [CrossRef]119. Liang, S.M.; Jiang, D.J.; Xie, M.M.; Zou, Y.N.; Wu , Q.S.; Kuca, K. Physiological Responses of Mycorrhizal Symbiosis to DroughtStress in White Clover. Not. Bot. Horti Agrobot. Cluj-Napoca 2021 ,49, 1–10. [CrossRef]120. Gupta, A.; Bano, A.; Rai, S.; Mishra, R.; Singh, M.; Sharma, S.; Pathak, N. Mechanistic Insights of Plant-Microbe Interactiontowards Drought and Salinity Stress in Plants for Enhancing the Agriculture Productivity. Plant Stress 2022 ,4, 100073. [CrossRef]121. Kour, D.; Khan, S.S.; Kaur, T.; Kour, H.; Singh, G.; Yadav, A.; Yadav, A.N. Drought Adaptive Microbes as Bioinoculants for theHorticultural Crops. Heliyon 2022 ,8, e09493. [CrossRef] [PubMed]122. Ahkami, A.H.; Allen White, R.; Handakumbura, P .P .; Jansson, C. Rhizosphere Engineering: Enhancing Sustainable PlantEcosystem Productivity. Rhizosphere 2017 ,3, 233–243. [CrossRef]123. Foster, K.R.; Bell, T. Competition, Not Cooperation, Dominates Interactions among Culturable Microbial Species. Curr. Biol. 2012 ,22, 1845–1850. [CrossRef] [PubMed]124. Arzanesh, M.H.; Alikhani, H.A.; Khavazi, K.; Rahimian, H.A.; Miransari, M. Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) Growth En-hancementby Azospirillum Sp. under Drought Stress. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2011 ,27, 197–205. [CrossRef]125. Bresson, J.; Varoquaux, F.; Bontpart, T.; Touraine, B.; Vile, D. The PGPR Strain Phyllobacterium brassicacearum STM196 Induc-esa Reproductive Delay and Physiological Changes That Result in Improved Drought Tolerance in Arabidopsis. New Phytol. 2013 ,200, 558–569. [CrossRef]126. Liu, F.; Xing, S.; Ma, H.; Du, Z.; Ma, B. Cytokinin-Producing, Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria That Confer Resistance toDrought Stress in Platycladus orientalis Container Seedlings. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2013 ,97, 9155–9164. [CrossRef]127. Kang, S.M.; Radhakrishnan, R.; Khan, A.L.; Kim, M.J.; Park, J.M.; Kim, B.R.; Shin, D.H.; Lee, I.J. Gibberellin Secreting Rhizo-bacterium, Pseudomonas putida H-2-3 Modulates the Hormonal and Stress Physiology of Soybean to Improve the Plant Growthunder Saline and Drought Conditions. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2014 ,84, 115–124. [CrossRef]128. Bharti, N.; Pandey, S.S.; Barnawal, D.; Patel, V .K.; Kalra, A. Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria Dietzia natronolimnaeaModulates the Expression of Stress Responsive Genes Providing Protection of Wheat from Salinity Stress. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 34768.[CrossRef]129. Ortíz-Castro, R.; Contreras-Cornejo, H.A.; Mac ías-Rodr íguez, L.; L ópez-Bucio, J. The Role of Microbial Signals in Plant Growthand Development. Plant Signal. Behav. 2009 ,4, 701–712. [CrossRef] [PubMed]130. Dangi, A.K.; Sharma, B.; Khangwal, I.; Shukla, P . Combinatorial Interactions of Biotic and Abiotic Stresses in Plants and TheirMolecular Mechanisms: Systems Biology Approach. Mol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,60, 636–650. [CrossRef] [PubMed]131. Imam, J.; Singh, P .K.; Shukla, P . Plant Microbe Interactions in Post Genomic Era: Perspectives and Applications. Front. Microbiol.2016 ,7, 1–15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]132. Pinu, F.R.; Beale, D.J.; Paten, A.M.; Kouremenos, K.; Swarup, S.; Schirra, H.J.; Wishart, D. Systems Biology and Multi-OmicsIntegration: Viewpoints from the Metabolomics Research Community. Metabolites 2019 ,9, 76. [CrossRef]133. Llorens, E.; Sharon, O.; Camañes, G.; Garc ía-Agust ín, P .; Sharon, A. Endophytes from Wild Cereals Protect Wheat Plants fromDrought by Alteration of Physiological Responses of the Plants to Water Stress. Environ. Microbiol. 2019 ,21, 3299–3312. [CrossRef]134. Omar, S.A.; Fetyan, N.A.H.; Eldenary, M.E.; Abdelfattah, M.H.; Abd-Elhalim, H.M.; Wrobel, J.; Kalaji, H.M. Alteration inExpression Level of Some Growth and Stress-Related Genes after Rhizobacteria Inoculation to Alleviate Drought Tolerance inSensitive Rice Genotype. Chem. Biol. Technol. Agric. 2021 ,8, 41. [CrossRef]135. Jayakumar, A.; Padmakumar, P .; Nair, I.C.; Radhakrishnan, E.K. Drought Tolerant Bacterial Endophytes with Potential PlantProbiotic Effects from Ananas Comosus. Biologia 2020 ,75, 1769–1778. [CrossRef]136. Saikia, J.; Sarma, R.K.; Dhandia, R.; Yadav, A.; Bharali, R.; Gupta, V .K.; Saikia, R. Alleviation of Drought Stress in Pulse Cropswith ACC Deaminase Producing Rhizobacteria Isolated from Acidic Soil of Northeast India. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 3560. [CrossRef]137. Nephali, L.; Moodley, V .; Piater, L.; Steenkamp, P .; Buthelezi, N.; Dubery, I.; Burgess, K.; Huyser, J.; Tugizimana, F. A MetabolomicLandscape of Maize Plants Treated with a Microbial Biostimulant Under Well-Watered and Drought Conditions. Front. Plant Sci.2021 ,12, 676632. [CrossRef]138. Lephatsi, M.; Nephali, L.; Meyer, V .; Piater, L.A.; Buthelezi, N.; Dubery, I.A.; Opperman, H.; Brand, M.; Huyser, J.; Tugizimana, F.Molecular Mechanisms Associated with Microbial Biostimulant-Mediated Growth Enhancement, Priming and Drought StressTolerance in Maize Plants. Sci. Rep. 2022 ,12, 10450. [CrossRef]139. Adeleke, B.S.; Babalola, O.O. Meta-Omics of Endophytic Microbes in Agricultural Biotechnology. Biocatal. Agric. Biotechnol. 2022 ,42, 102332. [CrossRef]Plants 2022 ,11, 2437 19 of 19140. Chen, X.L.; Sun, M.C.; Chong, S.L.; Si, J.P .; Wu, L.S. Transcriptomic and Metabolomic Approaches Deepen Our Knowledge ofPlant–Endophyte Interactions. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,12, 700200. [CrossRef] [PubMed]141. Chaudhary, T.; Shukla, P . Bioinoculant Capability Enhancement through Metabolomics and Systems Biology Approaches.Brief. Funct. Genom. 2018 ,18, 159–168. [CrossRef] [PubMed]142. Liang, S.M.; Zhang, F.; Zou, Y.N.; Kuˇ ca, K.; Wu, Q.S. Metabolomics Analysis Reveals Drought Responses of Trifoliate Orange byArbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi with a Focus on Terpenoid Proﬁle. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 102332. [CrossRef]143. Khan, N.; Bano, A.; Rahman, M.A.; Guo, J.; Kang, Z.; Babar, M.A. Comparative Physiological and Metabolic Analysis Reveals aComplex Mechanism Involved in Drought Tolerance in Chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) Induced by PGPR and PGRs. Sci. Rep. 2019 ,9, 2097. [CrossRef]144. Tyers, M.; Mann, M. From Genomics to Proteomics: One Approach. Am. Lab. 2003 ,34, 28.145. Alberton, D.; Valdameri, G.; Moure, V .R.; Monteiro, R.A.; de Pedrosa, F.O.; Müller-Santos, M.; de Souza, E.M. What Did WeLearn from Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR)-Grass Associations Studies Through Proteomic and MetabolomicApproaches? Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2020 ,4, 607343. [CrossRef]146. De Cremer, K.; Mathys, J.; Vos, C.; Froenicke, L.; Michelmore, R.W.; Cammue, B.P .A.; De Coninck, B. RNAseq-Based Tran-scriptome Analysis of Lactuca sativa Infected by the Fungal Necrotroph Botrytis cinerea. Plant Cell Environ. 2013 ,36, 1992–2007.[CrossRef]147. Poole, P .; Ramachandran, V .; Terpolilli, J. Rhizobia: From Saprophytes to Endosymbionts. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2018 ,16, 291–303.[CrossRef]148. Belbahri, L.; Bouket, A.C.; Rekik, I.; Alenezi, F.N.; Vallat, A.; Luptakova, L.; Petrovova, E.; Oszako, T.; Cherrad, S.; Vacher, S.; et al.Comparative Genomics of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Strains Reveals a Core Genome with Traits for Habitat Adapta-tion and aSecondary Metabolites Rich Accessory Genome. Front. Microbiol. 2017 ,8, 1438. [CrossRef]149. Nordstedt, N.P .; Jones, M.L. Genomic Analysis of Serratia plymuthica MBSA-MJ1: A Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria ThatImproves Water Stress Tolerance in Greenhouse Ornamentals. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 653556. [CrossRef] [PubMed]150. Suarez, C.; Ratering, S.; Hain, T.; Fritzenwanker, M.; Goesmann, A.; Blom, J.; Chakraborty, T.; Bunk, B.; Spröer, C.; Overmann, J.;et al. Complete Genome Sequence of the Plant Growth-Promoting Bacterium Hartmannibacter diazotrophicus Strain E19T. Int. J.Genomics 2019 ,2019 , 7586430. [CrossRef] [PubMed]151. Rouphael, Y.; Franken, P .; Schneider, C.; Schwarz, D.; Giovannetti, M.; Agnolucci, M.; De Pascale, S.; Bonini, P .; Colla, G.Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi Act as Biostimulants in Horticultural Crops. Sci. Hortic. 2015 ,196, 91–108. [CrossRef]152. Broadhurst, D.I.; Kell, D.B. Statistical Strategies for Avoiding False Discoveries in Metabolomics and Related Experiments.Metabolomics 2006 ,2, 171–196. [CrossRef]153. Hultman, J.; Waldrop, M.P .; Mackelprang, R.; David, M.M.; McFarland, J.; Blazewicz, S.J.; Harden, J.; Turetsky, M.R.;McGuire, A.D. ; Shah, M.B.; et al. Multi-Omics of Permafrost, Active Layer and Thermokarst Bog Soil Microbiomes. Nature 2015 ,521, 208–212. [CrossRef]154. Kuo, T.C.; Tian, T.F.; Tseng, Y.J. 3Omics: A Web-Based Systems Biology Tool for Analysis, Integration and Visualization of HumanTranscriptomic, Proteomic and Metabolomic Data. BMC Syst. Biol. 2013 ,7, 64. [CrossRef]155. Chong, J.; Soufan, O.; Li, C.; Caraus, I.; Li, S.; Bourque, G.; Wishart, D.S.; Xia, J. MetaboAnalyst 4.0: Towards More Trans-parentand Integrative Metabolomics Analysis. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018 ,46, W486–W494. [CrossRef]156. FAO. The State of the World’s Biodiversity for Food and Agriculture ; Bélanger, J., Pilling, D., Eds.; FAO Commission on GeneticResources for Food and Agriculture Assessments: Rome, Italy, 2019; 572p. Available online: http://www.fao.org/3/CA3129EN/CA3129EN.pdf (accessed on 17 August 2022).