Microbial  modulators  of  soil  carbonstorage:  integrating  genomic  andmetabolic  knowledge  for  globalpredictionPankaj  Trivedi,  Ian  C.  Anderson,  and  Brajesh  K.  SinghHawkesbury  Institute  for  the  Environment,  University  of  Western  Sydney,  Building  L9,  Locked  Bag  1797,  Penrith  South,NSW  2751,  AustraliaSoil  organic  carbon  performs  a  number  of  functions  inecosystems  and  it  is  clear  that  microbial  communitiesplay  important  roles  in  land–atmosphere  carbon  (C)exchange  and  soil  C  storage.  In  this  review,  we  discussmicrobial  modulators  of  soil  C  storage,  ‘omics’-basedapproaches  to  characterize  microbial  system  interac-tions  impacting  terrestrial  C  sequestration,  and  howdata  related  to  microbial  composition  and  activitiescan  be  incorporated  into  mechanistic  and  predictivemodels.  We  argue  that  although  making  direct  linkageof  genomes  to  global  phenomena  is  a  signiﬁcant  chal-lenge,  many  connections  at  intermediate  scales  are  via-ble  with  integrated  application  of  new  systems  biologyapproaches  and  powerful  analytical  and  modelling  tech-niques.  This  integration  could  enhance  our  capability  todevelop  and  evaluate  microbial  strategies  for  capturingand  sequestering  atmospheric  CO2.Overview  of  global  carbon  budget  and  microbialcontributionOne of  the  major  challenges  of  the  21st  century  is  tomitigate  the  effects  of  global  environmental  changesbrought  about  by  increasing  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases(GHGs),  especially  CO 2[1,2].  Over  the  past  200  years,405  /C6  30  Gigatons  (Gt;  1015g)  carbon  (C)  has  been  emittedinto  the  atmosphere  primarily  via  anthropogenic  activitiesand  as  a  result  the  global  concentration  of  CO 2has  risenfrom  280  to  382  ppm  in  2007,  with  a  current  annualincrease  of  0.88  ppm  [3].  There  is  thus  an  imminent  needto  identify  cost-effective  strategies  for  mitigating  anthro-pogenic  CO 2emissions  if  we  are  to  minimize  the  impact  ofclimate  change  and  ensure  global  environmental  security[4,5].  Important  feedback  exists  between  the  atmosphereand  soil,  and  a  clear  understanding  of  how  risingatmospheric  CO 2and  associated  climate  change  mightaffect  soil  C  sequestration  (see  Glossary )  and  GHG  ex-change  in  terrestrial  ecosystems  is  urgently  needed  [1–5] .Soils  represent  a  massive  stock  of  potentially  volatile  Cand  act  both  as  a  buffer  against  atmospheric  CO 2increaseand  as  a  potential  sink  for  additional  C  depending  on  thebalance  between  photosynthesis,  the  respiration  of  decom-poser  organisms,  and  stabilization  of  C  in  soils  [4,5](Figure  1).  Soil  biospheric  C  sequestration  can  meaningfullyReviewGlossaryCarbon  sequestration:  reduction  of  CO2emissions  to  the  atmosphere  throughabiological  and  biological  processes.  There  are  three  main  methods  in  variousstages  of  discovery  and  development:  (i)  near-term  storage  in  the  terrestrialbiosphere  where  vegetation  would  soak  up  the  CO2and  store  it  in  biomass  andsoil;  (ii)  long-term  storage  in  the  earth’s  soil  by  pumping  CO2into  existing  ordrilled/excavated  sub-surface  reservoirs;  and  (iii)  long-term  storage  in  theearth’s  oceans  where  CO2would  be  injected  thousands  of  feet  deep  andtrapped  by  the  water.Copiotrophs:  copiotrophs  (r-strategists)  are  defined  as  microbes  having  highgrowth  rates  under  nutrient-rich  conditions  and  mainly  target  labile  C  pools.Ecological  models:  the  conceptualization  and  implementation  of  computersimulations  of  the  behaviour  of  living  systems.  Ecological  models  have  twomajor  aims:  (i)  provide  general  insight  into  how  ecological  systems  orecological  interactions  work;  and  (ii)  provide  specific  predictions  about  thelikely  futures  of  particular  populations,  communities,  or  ecosystems.Metagenomics:  the  application  of  modern  genomics  techniques  to  the  study  ofcommunities  of  microbial  organisms  directly  in  their  natural  environments,bypassing  the  need  for  isolation  and  lab  cultivation  of  individual  species.Metagenomics  is  presently  divided  into  two  research  areas  driven  bytechnological  applications,  (i)  environmental  single  gene  surveys,  and  (ii)random  shotgun  studies  of  all  environmental  genes.Microaggregate:  organo-mineral  complexes  operationally  defined  as  53–212  mm  in  size  consisting  of  primary  particles,  plant  roots,  and  simplebiomolecules  stabilized  together  by  bacterial  and  fungal  proteins.  They  containpore  space  for  air  and  water  and  harbour  a  range  of  microbes,  but  organicmatter  turnover  occurs  slower  than  in  macroaggregates  (>212  mm).Oligotrophs:  oligotrophs  (k-strategists)  are  slow  growing  microbes  that  aredominant  in  nutrient-poor  environments,  and  mainly  target  recalcitrant  Cpools.Soil  organic  matter  (SOM):  traditionally  classified  into  two  major  groupscomprising  humic  and  nonhumic  substances.  SOM  is  thermodynamicallyunstable  and  is  part  of  the  natural  balance  between  production,  decom-position,  transformation,  and  resynthesis  of  various  organic  substances.The  humified  fraction  is  composed  of  humic,  fulvic,  and  humin  and  is  verystable.  The  nonhumic  portion  is  the  relatively  unstable,  most  labile  fractionand  is  easily  decomposed.  However,  recent  analytical  and  experimentaladvances  have  demonstrated  that  humic  substances  represent  only  a  smallfraction  of  total  organic  matter  and  persistence  of  SOM  is  primarily  not  amolecular,  but  an  ecosystem  property  [1].  SOM  is  made  up  of  50–58%  soilorganic  carbon  (SOC).0966-842X/$  –  see  front  matter/C223  2013  Elsevier  Ltd.  All  rights  reserved.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tim.2013.09.005Corresponding  author:  Singh,  B.K.  (b.singh@uws.edu.au ).Keywords:  soil;  carbon  sequestration;  microbial  communities;  metagenomics;  copio-troph;  oligotroph;  modelling.Trends  in  Microbiology,  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12  641Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.contribute  to  a  portfolio  of  mitigation  approaches  and  po-tentially  offset  a  signiﬁcant  fraction  of  diffuse  CO 2sourcesfor  which  direct  capture  is  not  yet  feasible  [4–6] .  In  particu-lar  it  has  been  estimated  that  through  judicious  manage-ment,  the  world  agriculture  and  degraded  soils  couldsequester  an  additional  0.4–1.2  Gt  C/year,  which  is  equiva-lent  to  5–15%  of  global  fossil  fuel  emissions  [5].  Terrestrial  Cstorage  not  only  represents  an  important  option  for  partiallymitigating  anthropogenic  emissions  but  also  provides  anumber  of  other  ecosystem  services  such  as  soil  fertility,water  quality,  resistance  to  erosion,  and  climate  mitigationthrough  reduced  feedbacks  to  climate  change  [5]  (Figure  1).In  terrestrial  ecosystems,  the  uptake  of  CO 2from  theatmosphere  by  net  primary  production  (NPP)  is  dominatedby  higher  plants,  but  microorganisms  contribute  greatly  toecosystem  C  budgets  through  their  roles  as  detritivores,plant  symbionts,  or  pathogens,  thereby  modifying  nutrientavailability  and  inﬂuencing  C  turnover  and  retention  insoil  [5,6].  It  has  been  proposed  that  terrestrial  ecosystemscan  potentially  be  manipulated  through  land  use  and  landmanagement  practices  for  the  build-up  of  distinct  microbi-al  communities  that  favour  C  sequestration  [4–8] .  Addi-tionally,  ecological  classiﬁcation  of  microbial  groups  (i.e.,copiotrophs  and  oligotrophs)  has  been  proposed  based  ontheir  ability  to  utilise  soil  organic  carbon  (SOC)  [9]  butevidence  for  such  life  styles  under  relevant  environmentalconditions  is  lacking.  Challenges  in  manipulating  microbi-al  community  for  enhanced  C  sequestration  arise  from  theenormous  diversity  and  unculturability  of  soil  microbialcommunities,  which  has  precluded  their  comprehensivecharacterization  and  limited  our  understanding  on  theirecological  functions  [8–10] .  The  new  generation  of  omicsmethods  (e.g.,  genomics,  transcriptomics,  proteomics,metabolomics,  metagenomics)  are  proving  instrumentalin  providing  valuable  information  about  the  taxonomic,genetic,  and  functional  properties  of  soil  microbial  commu-nities  (Table  1)  [8–16] .  These  techniques  have  begun  toallow  investigation  of  functional  processes  of  terrestrialmicrobial  communities  involved  in  C  cycling  that  can  beincorporated  into  mechanistic  and  predictive  ecologicalmodels  [17].  This  review  will  discuss  selected  examplesof  genomic  and  metagenomic  studies  that  have  provided  amechanistic  understanding  of  the  role  microbes  play  in  Cstorage  and  suggest  pathways  to  include  these  data  tomodify  existing  ecological  models.Microbial  modulators  of  soil  C  storageDecomposition  of  biomass  by  microbes  results  in  C  loss  fromthe  soil  due  to  microbial  respiration  (heterotrophic  respira-tion)  while  a  small  proportion  of  the  original  C  is  retained  inthe  soil  through  the  formation  of  stable  organic  matter(Figure  1)  [1,2].  When  C  inputs  from  photosynthesis  exceedC  losses  through  soil  respiration,  SOC  levels  increase  overtime  resulting  in  net  soil  C  sequestration  [1–5] .  Based  on  theC  mineralization  potential  and  growth  rates,  soil-dwellingbacteria  can  be  classiﬁed  into  two  ecological  functionalcategories  of  copiotrophs  (r-strategists)  and  oligotrophs  (k-strategists)  [9].  Members  of  phyla  Actinobacteria  and  Acid-obacteria  and  class  Deltaproteobacteria  are  considered  asoligotrophs  whereas  phylum  Bacteroidetes  and  class  a  and  gProteobacteria  are  copiotrophs  [9,18] .  It  has  also  beenpostulated  that  soils  dominated  by  oligotrophs  may  haveFood, ﬁbre, fuelGene/g415c informa/g415on,breeding stockNutrienttransforma/g415onCH4 produc/g415onAtmospheric C net annual increase =3−4 Gt C/yearCO2 ﬁxa/g415on byphotosynthesis (120+ 3)Autotrophic respira/g415on(60)Heterotrophic respira/g415on(60)Human emission (9)CarbonstoragePlant biomass  (550)O2 diﬀusioninto soil Carbon alloca/g415on to rootsand soil fungi networkLi/g425er, organicma/g425erN2ONO4SoilerosionSoil(2500)Water storage andtransmissionWater ﬁltra/g415on andpollutant a/g425enua/g415onAnaerobic waterlogged soils- C preserva/g415on- CH4 produc/g415onIntra-aggregate SOCFree SOCRootsMicrobesChemically protected SOCWater table–O2 diﬀusion barrierHabitat andbiodiversitySoil forma/g415onBedrockFossil carbon  (10 000)Atmosphere (800)TRENDS in Microbiology Figure  1.  Simplified  terrestrial  carbon  cycle.  The  values  in  bracket  represent  the  exchange  of  C  between  land  and  atmosphere  in  Gigatons  (Gt)  of  C  per  year.  Green  numbersare  natural  fluxes;  red  numbers  are  human  contributions  in  Gt  of  C  per  year.  White  numbers  indicate  stored  C.  Grey-coloured  boxes  represent  the  ecosystem  servicesprovided  by  C  cycling.  Red  arrows  represent  processes  that  are  postulated  to  increase  in  future  climate  scenarios.  Modified,  with  permission,  from  [2].Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12642Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.low  C  turnover  and,  consequently,  low  CO 2emissions  andthus  higher  C  sequestration  [8].  This  notion  has  been  sub-stantiated  by  metagenomic  studies,  which  have  reported  asigniﬁcant  contrast  in  copiotroph  versus  oligotroph  popula-tions  in  land  use  management  practices  that  inﬂuence  SOCaccumulation  [19–21] .  By  contrast,  it  could  also  be  arguedthat  soil  dominated  with  copiotrophs  will  have  more  soilcarbon  because  they  consume  more  labile  forms  over  recal-citrant  organic  C,  which  makes  up  the  bulk  of  the  soil  organicpool  [10].  We  suggest  that  because  of  enormous  phylogeneticTable  1.  Metagenomic  studies  of  terrestrial  ecosystemsaGeographic  location  Habitat  Strategy(metagenome  size)Information  on  RefsCommunity  structure  Community  functionCedar  Creek  EcosystemScience  Reserve  (CC)  andKellogg  BiologicalStation  (KB),  USAGrassland  (CC)and  agriculturalﬁeld  (KB)454-FLX  Titanium(518  Megabase)N  fertilization  might  induce  ashift  in  the  predominantmicrobial  life-history  strategies,a  pattern  that  parallels  the  oftenobserved  replacement  of  k-selected  with  r-selected  plantspecies  with  elevated  NN  fertilization  increases  the  relativeabundances  of  genes  associatedwith  DNA/RNA  replication,  electrontransport,  and  protein  metabolism[10]Spruce  plantation  atBreuil-Chenue,  FranceTemperateforest454-FLX  Titaniumand  Illumina(14  Gigabase)The  organic  soil  horizon  wassigniﬁcantly  enriched  insequences  related  to  Bacteria,Chordata,  Arthropoda,  andAscomycota  whereas  themineral  horizon  wassigniﬁcantly  enriched  insequences  related  to  ArchaeaSigniﬁcant  increase  in  the  relativeabundance  of  sequences  related  toglycoside  hydrolases  in  the  organichorizon  compared  to  the  mineralhorizon  that  was  signiﬁcantlyenriched  in  glycoside  transferases[11]Various  countriesand  continentsVariousbiomesIllumina  pairedend  sequencing(390–1000  Megabaseper  sample)Microbial  communities  of  plant-free  cold  desert  soils  had  thelowest  levels  of  phylogeneticand  taxonomic  diversityThe  desert  communities  hadhigher  relative  abundances  ofgenes  associated  withosmoregulation  and  dormancy,but  lower  relative  abundances  ofgenes  associated  with  nutrientcycling,  catabolism  of  plant-derived  organic  compounds,  andantibiotic  resistance[12]Park  experiment  atRothamstedResearch, UKGrassland  454-FLX  Titanium(4.88  Gigabase)The  most  abundant  taxaidentiﬁed  from  Rothamsted  soilwere  members  ofAlphaproteobacteria(Bradyrhizobium ,Rhodopseudomonas , andNitrobacter  genera),Acidobacteria  (Solibacter  andAcidobacteria  genera),Gammaproteobacteria(Pseudomonas genus),  andBetaproteobacteria(Burkholderia genus)Major  functional  categoriesincluded  carbohydratemetabolism,  cAMP  signalling,  andthe  Ton  and  Tol  transport  systems[13]Hess  Creek,Alasksa,  USAPermafrost  Illumina  paired  endsequencing(39.8 Gigabase)Core  speciﬁc  shifts  in  somecommunity  members  includingProteobacteria,  Bacteriodetes ,and  Firmicutes  orders;Actinobacteria  increased  in  bothcores  during  thawMultiple  genes  involved  in  cyclingof  C  and  N  shifted  rapidly  duringthaw[14]Eureka,  in  theCanadian  highArcticPermafrost  454-FLX  Titanium(1  Gigabase)The  active  layer  soil  and  the  2-mpermafrost  microbialcommunity  structures  were  verysimilar;  Actinobacteria  was  thedominant  phylumKey  genes  related  to  CH4generation  and  oxidation  andorganic  matter  degradation  werehighly  diverse  for  both  permafrostand  active  soil  layer  whereas  genesrelated  to  nitrogen  ﬁxation  andammonia  oxidation  showed  lowdiversity  but  high  abundance[15]Solvatn  andKnudsenheia,  NorwayPeat  soil  454-FLX  Titanium(230  Megabase)The  phylogenetic  diversity  ofboth  the  peat  soils  were  similarand  the  dominant  groupsbelonged  to  Proteobacteria,Actinobacteria,  Planctomycetes,Verrucomicrobia,Acidobacteria, and  theChloroﬂexiDeduced  the  main  degradationpathways  of  plant  polymers  in  thehigh-Arctic  peatlands  of  Svalbard[16]aSelected  cultivation-independent  studies  are  based  on  large-scale  sequence  dataset  analysis,  derived  from  DNA  that  has  not  been  subjected  to  targeted  PCR  ampliﬁcationand  selective  sequence  analysis.Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12643Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.and  physiological  diversity  within  each  bacterial  phylum,  itis  unlikely  that  an  entire  phylum  demonstrate  the  sameecological  characteristics.  As  with  other  microbiomes  [22],deep  branching  clades  could  be  ecologically  coherent.  Fur-ther  improvement  to  culturing  techniques  and  an  increasein  sequencing  efforts  are  needed  for  each  bacterial  linagewithin  soil  bacterial  phyla  to  broaden  our  knowledge  of  theecological  role  of  soil  microbes.The  fungal:bacterial  ratio  in  soils  has  been  associatedwith  C  sequestration  potential  with  greater  fungal  abun-dance  being  related  to  greater  C  storage  [23].  Evidencerelating  fungal:bacterial  ratio  to  C  sequestration  has  main-ly  been  gained  from  the  intensively  and  less  intensivelymanaged  systems  [24];  however,  contrasting  observationshave  been  reported  [25].  Fungal:bacterial  dominance  canbe  predicted  reasonably  well  from  soil  pH  and  soil  C:Nratios  [26,27] .  A  cross  biome  metagenomic  study  has  re-cently  shown  that  the  ratio  of  fungal:bacterial  rRNA  readsvaried  across  soils,  with  temperate  and  boreal  forestshaving  the  highest  fungal:bacterial  ratios  [12].  Higher  Cstorage  in  fungal-dominated  soils  can  be  attributed  to  higherC  use  efﬁciency;  longer  retention  of  C  in  living  biomass;  andrecalcitrant  necromass  resulting  in  longer  resident  time  of  C[23].  However,  these  observations  are  only  correlative  and  itis  still  debated  whether  fungal  dominant  communities  pro-mote  soil  C  storage  or  whether  soil  with  high  organic  Cfavours  soil  fungi.  Additionally,  it  can  also  be  argued  thatfungi  can  negatively  affect  C  storage  because  of  their  higherefﬁciency  to  decompose  recalcitrant  litter  [28–30] .  Althoughfungal:bacterial  dominance  is  a  widely  used  metric  thatprovides  soil  ecologists  with  a  means  to  assess  the  functionalimplications  of  soil  microbial  communities,  the  use  of  thisratio  to  accurately  predict  the  C  storage  potential  of  soils  iscontroversial  [29,31] .  Fungal  communities  represent  a  sig-niﬁcant  portion  of  the  active  biomass  pools  but  are  poorlyrepresented  in  most  of  the  metagenome  studies  [12,28] .High-throughput  sequencing  combined  with  stable  isotopeanalyses  have  shown  that  in  boreal  forests  fungi  are  respon-sible  for  stabilizing  C  and  retaining  it  in  soils  [32].  Furtheradvances  in  understanding  links  between  microbial  com-munity  structure  and  function  in  soils  clearly  relies  on  thedevelopment  of  methods  to  independently  assess  the  func-tioning  of  bacterial  and  fungal  assemblages  in  intactmicrobial  communities  or  molecular  tools  that  permitsimultaneous  characterization  of  the  whole  community  atresolutions  proportional  to  bacterial  and  fungal  activities.Autotrophic  microorganisms  are  known  to  contributesigniﬁcantly  to  CO 2assimilation  in  aquatic  systems  buthave  not  generally  been  thought  to  play  a  key  role  in  CO 2ﬁxation  and  sequestration  in  soils.  Recently  it  has  beensuggested  that  microbial  autotrophy  could  account  for  upto  4%  of  the  total  CO 2ﬁxed  by  terrestrial  ecosystems  eachyear  [33].  Complete  genetic  machinery  for  photosynthesisand  carbo-oxidotrophy  (ability  to  use  CO 2as  a  C  source)has  been  elucidated  for  a  few  members  of  b-Proteobacteria[34,35] .  Microbial  autotrophs  are  difﬁcult  to  culture  anddespite  the  indications  of  widespread  presence  of  Ribulose1,5-bisphosphate  carboxylase/oxygenase  (RubisCO)  genesin  various  soil  environments  [33,35] ,  only  a  few  bacterialisolates  showing  CO 2ﬁxation  have  been  isolated  from  soils.The  diversity  and  abundance  of  autotrophic  bacterialcommunity  in  soil  correlate  with  soil  use  and  SOC  contentsuggesting  that  soil  management  and  cropping  regimemight  be  manipulated  to  enhance  soil  C  sequestrationby  the  growth  of  autotrophic  bacteria  [33,36] .  This  tanta-lising  prospect  demands  improved  culturing  methods  andgenomic  data  to  offer  new  insights  into  the  importance  ofmicrobial  autotrophy  in  terrestrial  C  cycling.Soil–microbial  interactions  and  C  sequestrationIn  recent  years,  a  wealth  of  information  has  been  uncov-ered  by  metagenomics,  such  as  incredible  diversity,  vastswathes  of  uncharacterized  metabolism,  increased  com-plexity  of  biogeochemical  pathways,  and  even  some  para-digm  shifts  in  our  understanding  of  soil  microbial  ecology.Here,  we  present  recent  metagenomic-derived  informationon  microbial  interaction  and  feedbacks  with  soil  and  otherenvironmental  variables  and  their  inﬂuence  on  C  storage.Microbial  interactions  and  soil  physicochemicalpropertiesSoil structure  is  an  important  regulator  of  microbially-mediated  C  storage  or  decomposition  [37].  Various  groupsof  microbes  facilitate  formation  and  stabilization  of  micro-aggregates  [4,38–40] .  Soil  organic  matter  (SOM)  is  prefer-entially  stabilized  in  these  microaggregate  fractions  andaggregate  stability  increases  linearly  with  C  input  [38].Considering  that  the  degradation  of  SOM  is  mainly  amicrobiological  process,  it  can  be  suggested  that  differentsubstrates  and  surface  properties  will  select  for  speciﬁcallyadapted  microbial  communities  [1,37,38] .  The  only  meta-genomic  study  addressing  the  effect  of  aggregate  stratiﬁ-cation  shows  the  association  of  speciﬁc  bacterialassemblages  with  particular  soil  chemistries  within  thesoil  microenvironment  [41].  Metagenomic  analysis  of  forestsoils  has  shown  that  the  active  and  total  microbial  com-munities  in  different  horizons  are  different  and  highlystratiﬁed  during  decomposition  [11,28] .  Carbon  sequestra-tion  in  a  given  system  may  comprise  a  hierarchy  of  biologi-cal  processes  at  the  spatial  dimension  of  soil  physicalstructure.  There  is  thus  an  urgent  need  for  the  applicationof  ‘omics’  techniques  to  understand  soil  C  accumulationdriven  by  biological  processes  within  the  micro-niche  of  soilspace.  However,  these  studies  will  require  access  to,  andefﬁcient  extraction  of,  microbial  cells  and  genomes  fromthese  very  stable  local  micro-environments.Land  management  practices  and  soil  C  storageA  range  of  manipulation  approaches  for  land  management(Box  1)  that  inﬂuences  soil  decomposition  processes  hasbeen  proposed  to  enhance  C  sequestration  [4,8].  Metage-nomic-based  insights  have  provided  strong  evidence  thatmicrobial  community  composition  responds  signiﬁcantly  toland  use  and  management  practices  and  are  correlatedwith  soil  parameters  including  SOM  [19–21] .  In  some  ofthese  studies,  selected  microbial  communities  may  serveas  a  potential  management  indicator  to  discriminate  be-tween  sustainable  versus  nonsustainable  managementpractices  [20,21] .  Many  developed  countries  now  haveestablished  soil  survey  programmes  that  mine  the  datafor  linkage  between  soil  management  practices  and  micro-bial  communities.  Systematic  exploration  of  soil  processesReview Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12644Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.and  metabolic  properties  of  soil  microbial  communities  willhelp  to  identify  the  ecological  consequences  of  various  landuse  practices  and  the  development  of  management  prac-tices  that  increase  net  productivity  and  C  sequestration.N  availability  is  likely  to  impact  C  storage  through  avariety  of  feedbacks  with  different  timescales.  A  few  stud-ies  have  shown  that  N  deposition  signiﬁcantly  reduce  therichness  and  diversity  of  genes  involved  in  the  productionof  extracellular  enzymes  involved  in  the  degradation  ofrecalcitrant  C,  which  has  a  positive  effect  on  C  storage  [42–44].  Nitrogen  amendment  causes  a  consistent  shift  in  thepredominant  microbial  life  history  strategies,  favouring  amore  active,  copiotrophic  microbial  community  [10,43,44] .Studies  have  further  suggested  that  N  deposition-relateddecreases  in  soil  C  decomposition  support  enzyme  inhibi-tion  and  N  mining  hypotheses  that  explain  decreasedmicrobial  activity  in  response  to  N  amendments  [10,43] .However,  further  studies  are  needed  to  conﬁrm  applicabil-ity  of  the  enzyme  inhibition  hypothesis  and  to  determine  ifthe  presumed  oligotroph–copiotroph  switch  is  a  consistentresponse  to  N  additions.Climate  change  and  soil  C  storageContinued  increases  in  atmospheric  CO 2may  have  avariety  of  different  consequences  for  soil  C  inputs  viacontrols  on  photosynthetic  rates  and  C  losses  throughrespiration  and  decomposition.  Enhanced  heterotrophicrespiration  due  to  an  increase  in  rhizodeposition  underelevated  (e)CO 2may  also  accelerate  decomposition  ofSOM  through  increased  microbial  activity  [45].  However,manipulated  experiments  did  not  show  consistent  effectsof  elevated  eCO 2on  bacterial  biomass,  richness,  and  com-munity  composition  across  six  contrasting  terrestrial  eco-systems,  although  signiﬁcant  responses  were  observed  inindividual  ecosystems  [46].  In  grasslands,  comprehensivemetagenomics-based  surveys  of  microbial  richness  andcomposition  have  revealed  that  eCO 2signiﬁcantly  altersmicrobial  community  diversity,  composition,  structure,and  their  functional  potential  [47–49] .  Increases  in  theabundance  of  genes  involved  in  degradation  of  labile  formsof  C  is  in  line  with  the  previous  observation  that  eCO 2increase  the  inputs  of  organic  C  in  soil.  Also,  the  abun-dance  of  genes  involved  in  recalcitrant  C  degradation  donot  signiﬁcantly  change  at  eCO 2,  indicating  that  soil  Cstorage  may  remain  largely  unaffected  in  the  long  term,which  is  consistent  with  the  fact  that  eCO 2has  little  effecton  soil  C  storage  [47].Warming  typically  accelerates  soil  microbial  respirationrates  due  to  increased  soil  enzyme  activities,  which  drivedecomposition  [50].  Primarily  as  a  result  of  this  response,  a28C  global  average  temperature  increase  is  predicted  tostimulate  soil  C  loss  by  10  Gt/year  [8].  However,  thisstimulation  of  soil  C  loss  could  be  entirely  mitigated  bya  decline  in  the  temperature  sensitivity  of  microbial  activ-ity  [51].  Metagenomics-based  studies  have  provided  amechanistic  understanding  of  microorganism  responsesand  its  impact  on  ecosystem  C  storage  including  (i)  shiftingmicrobial  community  composition,  most  likely  led  to  thereduced  temperature  sensitivity  of  heterotrophic  soil  res-piration  [52,53] ,  (ii)  differentially  stimulating  genes  fordegrading  labile  but  not  recalcitrant  C  so  as  to  maintainlong-term  soil  C  stability  [14,52,53] ,  and  (iii)  enhancingnutrient  cycling  processes  to  promote  plant  nutrient  avail-ability  and  hence  plant  growth  [52,53] .  We  suggest  that  theeffect  of  warming  on  microbial  communities  and  theirrelated  functions  will  be  variable  between  biomes  andare  likely  to  have  strong  effects  on  decomposition  processesin  alpine  and  arctic  regions.Evidence  of  microbial  potential  to  inﬂuence  C  storagefrom  whole  genome  sequencingAlthough  both  bacteria  and  fungi  are  important  in  thecontext  of  soil  C  sequestration,  genomic  and  metagenomicstudies  aimed  at  interrogating  the  role  of  microbial  com-munities  in  soil  C  dynamics  has  mainly  been  undertakenfor  bacteria  due  to  a  rapidly  increasing  number  of  bacterialgenome  sequences  becoming  available.  Because  fungi  playcentral  roles  in  terrestrial  ecosystems,  both  as  decompo-sers  of  organic  matter  and  as  root-associated  mediators  ofbelow-ground  C  transport  and  respiration,  there  exists  anurgent  need  for  systematic  sampling  and  genome  sequenc-ing  of  the  fungi.  A  recent  comparative  analysis  of  31  fungalgenomes  does  provide  insights  into  the  evolution  ofBox  1.  Harnessing  plant–microbe  interaction  for  CsequestrationTerrestrial  ecosystem  conservation  and  restoration  by  manipulatingplant  assemblages  provide  a  multitude  of  options  for  creating  andoptimizing  inventories  of  stable  C.  Efforts  have  also  been  made  tomake  designer  plants  (notably  energy  crops  needed  to  producebioethanol)  in  ways  that  stimulate  them  to  produce  larger  fractionsof  more-recalcitrant  organic  matter  that  would  lead  to  increased  Csequestration  [8,79] .  Plants  live  in  close  association  with  microbialcommunities  whose  individual  members  can  contribute  to  plantgrowth  and  development,  plant  productivity,  and  phytoremediation[56,80–82] .  Various  independent  metagenomic  studies  have  shownthat  there  is  a  typical  ‘core’  microbiome  for  the  plant  host,  which  isrecruited  from  the  common  soil  bacteria  and  selected  by  the  abilityof  community  members  to  grow  in  root  exudates  and  providebenefits  to  the  plant  through  direct  or  indirect  mechanisms  [80,81] .The  analysis  of  genes  and  metabolically  important  gene  productsfrom  plant-associated  bacteria  has  resulted  in  the  identification  ofmany  possible  mechanisms  that  could  help  these  microbes  thrivewithin  a  plant  environment,  and  potentially  affect  the  growth  anddevelopment  of  their  plant  host  [58].  This  has  laid  the  basicfoundation  to  genetically  engineer  desired  bacteria  for  increasedcolonization  ability;  beneficial  traits;  biocontrol  ability;  manipulationof  native  microbial  community;  and/or  altered  production  ofextracellular  enzymes  involved  in  C  degradation  and  storage.Manipulation  of  the  C  storage  regulator  (Csr)  system  could  resultin  metabolite  remodelling  for  the  production,  storage,  or  utilizationof  specific  C  substrates  in  soil.  A  recent  study  has  also  suggestedthat  when  faced  with  environmental  change,  plants  may  not  belimited  to  adapt  or  migrate  strategies;  instead,  they  also  may  benefitfrom  association  with  interacting  species,  especially  diverse  soilmicrobial  communities,  that  respond  rapidly  to  environmentalchange  [82].  This  further  substantiates  the  importance  of  primingplants  with  beneficial  soil  microbes  for  predictive  interventions  thatwill  increase  plant  health  and  productivity,  C  sequestration,  anddisease  resistance  through  the  rational  utilization  of  the  probioticcapacity  of  soils  and  the  local  environment.  Interestingly,  the  shift  inpatterns  of  rhizo-deposition  and  changes  in  C  utilization  and  fixationpotential  of  the  microbial  community  in  response  to  disease  is  beingpostulated  to  have  long-term  effects  on  C  storage  and  sequestration[83].  Further  studies  are  required  for  understanding  the  relativeimportance  of  perturbations  caused  by  phytopathogens  on  themicrobial  biodiversity  and  activity  and  the  effect  of  these  shifts  inlocal  and  global-scale  ecological  phenomenon.Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12645Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.enzymes  capable  of  degrading  lignin  [54].  As  databecome  available  from  a  current  initiative  of  genomesequencing  for  fungi  (http://genome.jgi.doe.gov/programs/fungi/1000fungalgenomes.jsf ),  our  understanding  of  therole  of  fungi  in  global  C  cycling  will  improve.Microbial  diversity  of  enzyme  genotype  may  be  associ-ated  with  lifestyle  strategy  and  can  inﬂuence  C  storage  interrestrial  ecosystems.  The  genetic  potential  to  produceextracellular  enzymes  involved  in  the  degradation  of  rela-tively  labile  forms  of  C,  including  most  abundant  plantstructural  C  polymers  such  as  cellulose  and  hemicellulose,seems  to  be  less  conserved  among  different  phylum  of  thesoil  bacteria  (Figure  2)  [55].  However,  the  number  of  genesper  genome  involved  in  the  degradation  of  moderatelylabile  C  seems  to  be  higher  in  typical  soil-inhabiting  bac-teria  belonging  to  Actinobacteria  and  Acidobacteria  ascompared  to  most  of  the  Proteobacterial  members(Figure  2)  [56].  Members  of  Actinobacteria  and  Acidobac-teria  seem  to  possess  well-equipped  genetic  machinery  forthe  production  of  enzymes  (including  chitinase)  involved  indegradation  of  cell  wall  materials,  which  possibly  canimpact  these  important  sources  of  C  and  N  for  long-termstabilization  (Figure  2).  This  supports  the  argument  thatthese  bacteria  mainly  survive  on  SOC.  Only  a  few  bacteriaencode  genes  for  the  production  of  enzymes  involved  indegradation  of  recalcitrant  C  forms,  especially  lignin(Figure  2).  This  might  be  the  reason  for  the  stimulationof  only  a  few  selected  bacterial  groups  by  the  addition  oflignin  to  soil  samples  [57].  Linking  phylogenetic  and  trait-based  patterns  of  biogeography  of  soil  microbial  communi-ties  based  on  enzyme  production  is  difﬁcult  considering  therole  of  ‘cheaters’  (microbes  that  take  up  the  byproducts  ofpolymer  breakdown  but  do  not  contribute  to  the  pools  ofextracellular  enzymes  that  catalyse  the  breakdown  pro-cess),  horizontal  gene  transfer,  and  different  ecologicalfunction(s)  of  a  single  enzyme.Ac/g415nobacteriaKey:StarchEC.3.2.1.41EC.3.2.1.3Labile carbon Recalcitrant carbon Transporters  Enzymes/proteins for stress responsesHemicelluloseExoenzymes for C degrada/g415onCellulose Aroma/g415cs Chi/g415n LigninFirmicutes Acidobacteria α-proteobacteria δ-proteobacteria β-proteobacteria γ-proteobacteria Deinocococcus-thermus Verrucomicrobia  BacteroidetesEC.3.2.1.135EC.5.4.99.30EC.3.2.1.21EC.3.2.1.8EC.3.2.1.4EC.3.2.1.91EC.3.3.2.8EC.1.14.13.82EC.3.2.1.96EC.3.2.1.14EC.1.11.1.14EC.1.14.18.1EC.1.11.1.7TransporterATP dependentMIPMot/ExbBCCTDMTAPCTRKFeoEC.1.4.3EC.1.5.3EC.1.11.1.6EC.1.15.1.1EC.1.2.1.8EC.1.1.99.1EC.5.4.99.16EC.3.1.3.12EC.2.4.1.15EC.3.2.1.141EC.3.2.1EC.1.13.11.4USPsigma-70Saccharomonospora viridis (NC_013159)Amycolatopsis mediterranei  (NC_014318)Gordonia polyisoprenivorans (NC_016906)Rhodococcus jos/g415i (NC_008268)Salinispora tropica (NC_009380)Geodermatophilus obscurus (NC_013757)Blastococcus saxobsidens (NC_016943)Corynebacterium glutamicum (NC_006958)Streptomyces avermi/g415lis (NC_003155)Kitasatospora setae (NC_016109)Streptomyces bingchenggensis (NC_016582)Arthrobacter aurescens (NC_008711)Kocuria rhizophila (NC_010617)Beutenbergia cavernae (NC_012669)Cellulomonas ﬂavigena (NC_014151)Stackebrand/g415a nassauensis (NC_013947)Conexibacter woesei (NC_013739)Clostridium acetobutylicum (NC_003030)Desulﬁtobacterium hafniense (NC_007907)Brevibacillus brevis (NC_012491)Paenibacillus mucilaginosus (NC_016935)Exiguobacterium sibiricum (NC_010556)Bacillus pseudoﬁrmus (NC_013791)Bacillus megaterium (NC_016070)Bacillus thuringiensis (NZ_000755)Bacillus mycoides (NZ_CM000744)Bacillus cereus (NZ_CM000734)Acidobacterium capsulatum (NC_012483)Rhizobium etli (NC_007761)Agrobacterium sp. (NC_015183.1)Mesorhizobium lo/g415 (NC_002678)Polymorphum gilvum (NC_015259)Pseudovibrio sp. (NC_016642)Methylobacterium extorquens (NC_012988)Bradyrhizobium sp. (NC_017082)Nitrobacter winogradskyi (NC_007406)Azospirillum sp. (NC_013854)Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus (NC_011365)Desulfovibrio vulgaris (NC_002937)Burkholderia sp. KJ006 (NC_017920)Burkholderia ambifaria (NC_008390)Cupriavidus taiwanensis (NC_0105328)Thiobacillus denitriﬁcans (NC_007404)Nitrosospira mul/g415formis (NC_007614)Achromobacter xylosoxidans (NC_014640)Ramlibacter tataouinensis (NC_015677)Enterobacter sp. 638 (NC_009436)Pantoea vagans C9-1 (NC_014562.1)Rahnella aqua/g415lis (NC_017047)Stenotrophomonas maltophilia (NC_011071)Psychrobacter cryohalolen/g415s (NC_007969)Cellvibrio japonicus (NC_010995)Pseudomonas brassicacearum (NC_015379)Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens Pf0-1 (NC_007492)Pseudomonas aeruginosa (NC_017549)Azotobacter vinelandii GL01 (NC_012560)Flavobacterium johnsoniae (NC_09441)EC.3.2.1.1Chi/g415nophaga pinensis (NC_013132)Cytophaga hutchinsonii (NC_008255)Opitutus terrae (NC_010571)Deinococcus deser/g415 (NC_012526)Ca. Solibacter usitatus  (NC_008536)Ca. Koribacter versa/g415lis  (NC_008009)TRENDS in Microbiology Figure  2.  Distribution  of  genes  involved  in  the  production  of  exoenzymes  for  C  degradation,  transporters,  and  enzymes/proteins  for  stress  tolerance  from  selected  bacteriaassociated  with  the  terrestrial  ecosystem.  On  the  left,  different  coloured  boxes  represent  different  phyla  or  groups.  The  phylogenetic  tree  on  the  left  was  constructed  usingthe  neighbour-joining  algorithm  to  evaluate  the  distance  between  16S  rRNA  gene  sequences  of  selected  bacteria.  Numbers  in  brackets  represent  the  accession  numbers  ofcomplete  genomes.  Enzymes:  EC  3.2.1.1  –  a-amylase;  EC  3.2.1.3  –  glucan  1,4-a-glucosidase;  EC  3.2.1.135  –  neopullulanase;  EC  3.2.1.41  –  pullulanase;  EC  5.4.99.30  –  UDP-arabinopyranose  mutase;  EC  3.2.1.8  –  endo-1,4-beta-xylanase;  EC  3.2.1.4  –  cellulose;  EC  3.2.1.91  –  cellulose  1,4-beta-cellobiosidase;  EC  3.3.2.8  –  limonene-1,2-epoxidehydrolase;  EC  1.14.13.82  –  vanillate  monooxygenase;  EC  3.2.1.96  –  mannosyl-glycoprotein  endo- b-N-acetylglucosaminidase;  EC  3.2.1.1.14  –  chitinases;  EC  1.11.1.14  –  ligninperoxidase;  EC  1.14.18.1  –  monophenol  monooxygenase;  EC  1.11.1.7  –  peroxidase.  Transporters:  MIP  –  major  intrinsic  protein;  BCCT  –  betaine/carnitine/cholinetransporters;  DMT  –  drug/metabolite  transporter;  APC  –  amino  acid/polyamine/organocation  superfamily  transporter;  Trk  –  potassium  transport  proteins;  Feo  –  iron(II)transport  system;  Mot-Exb  –  H+-  or  Na+-translocating  bacterial  flagellar  motor/outer  membrane  transport  energizer  superfamily.  Enzymes/proteins  for  stress  response:  EC1.4.3  and  1.5.3  –  oxidases  that  use  molecular  oxygen  to  metabolize  amino  groups;  EC  1.11.1.6  –  catalase/peroxidase;  EC  1.15.1.1  –  superoxide  dismutase;  EC  1.2.1.8  –betaine-aldehyde  dehydrogenase;  EC  1.1.99.1  –  choline  dehydrogenase;  EC  5.4.99.16  –  maltose  a-D-glucosyltransferase;  EC  3.1.3.12  –  trehalose-phosphatase;  EC  2.4.1.15  –a,a-trehalose-phosphate  synthase;  EC  3.2.1.141  –  4-alpha-D-{(1- >4)-alpha-D-glucano}  trehalose  trehalohydrolase;  EC  3.2.1  –  glycosidases;  EC  1.13.11.4  –  gentisate  1,2-dioxygenase;  USP  –  universal  stress  protein.Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12646Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Physiological  responses  to  stress  have  costs  at  the  or-ganismal  level  that  can  result  in  altered  ecosystem  level  C,energy,  and  nutrient  ﬂow  [39,58,59] .  Genomic  informationprovides  evidence  that  most  soil  bacteria,  irrespective  oftheir  phylogenetic  groupings,  possess  different  genes  in-volved  in  relieving  stresses  caused  by  temperature,  osmot-ic  potential,  oxygen  concentration,  and  metabolism(Figure  2)  [34,39,58,59] .  This  can  explain  the  resilienceof  soil  microbial  communities  to  moderate  ﬂuctuations  inabiotic  variables  [60].  Based  on  the  information  gatheredfrom  full  genome  sequences,  we  infer  that  bacteria  belong-ing  to  Acidobacteria  and  Actinobacteria  possess  an  impres-sive  array  of  genes  allowing  breakdown,  utilization,  andbiosynthesis  of  diverse  structural  and  storage  polysacchar-ides  and  resilience  to  stressful  soil  conditions  making  themtruly  ubiquitous  in  terrestrial  ecosystems  (Figure  2).  Thisﬁnding  supports  the  metagenomic  evidence  of  higher  SOCin  Acidobacteria-  and  Actinobacteria-dominated  communi-ties  and  suggest  that  these  groups  promote  soil  C  storagenot  only  due  to  life  style  (slow  growth  and  lower  metabolicactivities),  but  also  by  producing  polysaccharides  for  soilstructural  stability.Genomic  analysis  shows  that  fast  growing  bacteria(especially  those  belonging  to  the  phyla  Proteobacteriaand  Firmicutes)  have  a  higher  number  of  total  transportersincluding  ATP-binding  cassettes,  phosphotransferase  sys-tems,  and  drug/metabolite  transporters  that  could  importor  export  a  broad  range  of  compounds  (Figure  2)  [61].  Thepresence  of  low  afﬁnity  transporters  allows  fast  growth  inperiods  of  feast,  while  enduring  starvation  in  periods  offamine.  Bacteria  belonging  to  the  phyla  Proteobacteria  andFirmicutes  also  possess  higher  numbers  of  ﬂagellar  motor/ExbBD  outer  membrane  transport  energizer  (Mot-Exb)(Figure  2)  transporters  involved  in  motility  that,  togetherwith  a  higher  number  of  substrate  transporters,  can  ex-plain  the  dominance  of  these  bacterial  groups  in  the  nutri-ent  rich  soil  environments  such  as  the  rhizosphere.However,  slow  growing  bacteria  in  the  Acidobacteria  andActinobacteria  taxa  possess  a  low  number  of  total  trans-porters  that  have  high  afﬁnity  to  a  speciﬁc  substrateallowing  them  to  thrive  in  low  nutrient  concentrations,but  become  saturated  at  high  nutrient  concentration  lead-ing  to  their  selective  exclusion  by  fast  growers  in  richenvironments  (Figure  2).  We  propose  that  insights  intosubstrate  speciﬁcity  and  diversity  of  transporters  in  ge-nome  sequences  could  provide  useful  and  relevant  clues  forthe  C  substrate  utilization  of  a  bacterium,  bacterial  group,or  even  a  microbial  community.  This  information  can  alsoprovide  direct  evidence  in  support  of  bacterial  lifestylessuch  as  oligotroph  or  copiotroph.  However,  whole  genomesequences  are  available  only  for  limited  soil  bacteria  and  inthe  future  many  more  genomes  need  to  be  included,  eitherfrom  whole  genome  sequencing  or  from  constructing  gen-omes  from  metagenomic  sequences,  in  order  to  provideconclusive  and  consistent  evidence.Overall  genomic  features  of  individual  bacteria  providean  indication  of  their  possible  role  in  C  turnover  based  onthe  battery  of  genes  responsible  for  producing  extracellularenzymes;  their  survival  strategies  in  different  microenvir-onments;  or  utilization  of  speciﬁc  substrates.  However,  thepresence  of  a  gene  does  not  mean  that  the  feature  will  bereﬂected  in  actual  environmental  conditions.  To  add  an-other  layer  to  the  complexity,  soil  bacterial  genomes  in-clude  several  novel  features  that  in  most  cases  are  notknown  or  described.  Further  investigation  of  protein  struc-ture  and  function  is  needed  to  link  them  to  physiology  andenvironmentally  relevant  functions.  Information  providedby  the  genome  sequence  of  individual  bacteria  and  subse-quent  searching  for  the  abundance  of  ecologically  impor-tant  genes  by  metagenomic  analysis  can  become  a  powerfulapproach  for  revealing  ecological  and  evolutionary  forcesthat  inﬂuence  microbial  traits  in  a  changing  environment.Modelling  microbial  communitiesBecause  microbes  affect  biogeochemical  feedbacks  to  globalchange,  there  have  been  many  calls  to  integrate  microbialcommunities  into  broad  scale  ecosystem  and  climate  mod-els  [62,63] .  Such  integration  would  require  direct  evidenceof  microbial  control  of  biogeochemical  processes  and  aquantitative  relationship  between  changes  in  microbialcomposition  and  the  rate  of  the  biogeochemical  cycle[17,62–65] .  For  terrestrial  ecosystems,  modelling  the  spa-tial  and  temporal  characteristics  of  microbial  communitystructure  is  extremely  difﬁcult,  primarily  because  of  theperceived  heterogeneity  that  results  in  the  patchiness  ofpredictive  capability.  However,  ‘parts  lists’  provided  bymetagenomics  studies  have  started  to  elucidate  the  levelof  overlap  in  the  taxonomic  composition  between  differentterrestrial  systems  across  different  scales  and  begun  toshow  that  the  perceived  heterogeneity  might  not  be  aspatchy  [64].  The  integration  of  microbial-mediated  func-tions  in  terrestrial  ecological  models  has  already  begun  at  asmall  scale  [65],  but  has  not  yet  inﬂuenced  the  structure  ofcoupled  climate  change  models  at  the  global  scale.  In  thissection,  we  discuss  various  types  of  microbial-based  model-ling  approaches  that  have  provided  deeper  insights  intothe  coupling  between  microbial  community  functionaltraits,  the  environmental  context,  and  the  ecosystem  pro-cesses  that  occur.Individual-based  modelsIndividual-based  models  (IBMs)  attempt  to  capture  theproperties  and  dynamics  of  a  population  by  describing  allthe  actions  of  its  constitutive  individuals  and  their  inter-action  with  the  environment  and  with  each  other  [66–68] .Recently,  few  studies  have  attempted  to  use  IBMs  topredict  the  interaction  between  diversity,  population  dy-namics,  and  community  function  in  soil  and  how  these  arelinked  to  events  at  the  individual  level,  including  celladaptation  and  evolution  [66–69] .  INDividual  DIScreteSIMulations  (INDISIM)  uses  a  number  of  state  variablesand  parameters  related  to  SOM  and  microbial  activity  tomodel  the  dynamics  and  evolution  of  C  and  N  associatedwith  organic  matter  in  soils  [67].  The  Model  SEED  plat-form  developed  using  metabolic  interactions  to  6903  spe-cies  pairs  derived  from  118  bacteria  provides  a  conceptualframework  for  predicting  possible  interactions  dependingon  the  sum  of  growth  rates  when  grown  together  comparedto  separately  on  the  same  media  [68].  A  dynamic  Multi-Species  Metabolic  Modelling  framework  that  integratesgenome  scale  metabolic  models  within  the  dynamic  FluxBalance  Analysis  (dFBA)  framework  has  been  developed  toReview Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12647Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.predict  metabolic  ﬂux  distributions  and  biomass  concen-tration  of  individual  species  in  the  extracellular  environ-ment  [69].Heterogeneous  network  modelsAlthough  a  network  approach  is  powerful  in  describingecological  interactions  among  species,  deﬁning  the  net-work  structure  in  microbial  communities  is  a  huge  chal-lenge.  Recently,  such  correlative  systems  analyses  arescaling  up  to  link  biomolecular  networks  to  ecologicalnetworks.  Both  phylogenetic  (dataset  from  16S  rRNA  genepyrosequencing)  and  functional  (dataset  from  GeoChiphybridizations)  molecular  ecological  networks  (MENs)  ofsoil  microbial  communities  based  on  random  matrix  theory(RMT)  under  different  climate  change  scenarios  (eCO 2orwarming)  possessed  the  general  characteristic  of  complexsystems  such  as  scale  free,  small  world,  modular,  andhierarchical  [70,71] .  The  structure  of  identiﬁed  MENsunder  different  environmental  conditions  differed  substan-tially  in  terms  of  overall  network  topology,  network  com-position,  node  overlap,  module  preservation,  module-basedhigher  order  organization,  topological  roles  of  individualnodes,  and  network  hubs,  suggesting  that  altered  climatevariables  dramatically  change  network  interactionsamong  different  functional  and  phylogenetic  groups  orpopulations.Although  we  expect  that  IBM  and  network-based  mod-els  can  provide  us  with  the  mechanistic  descriptions  of  soilmicroorganisms  interactions  at  the  ﬁne  scale,  syntheticnetwork  modelling  approaches  are  needed  for  scaling  up  tothe  ecosystem  level  in  order  to  explain  more  important  soilfunctions.Trait-based  microbial  modelsTrait-based  microbial  models  parameterize  speciﬁc  traitsthat  determine  the  relative  ﬁtness  of  an  organism  in  agiven  environment,  and  represent  the  complexity  of  bio-logical  systems  across  ecosystem  gradients  [72].  Previousapplications  of  the  microbial  trait-based  approach  havebeen  successful  in  predicting  rates  of  litter  decomposition[73]  and  biological  nitriﬁcation  [74]  in  terrestrial  ecosys-tems.  The  decomposition  model  of  enzymatic  traits(DEMENT)  accounted  for  69%  of  the  variation  in  decom-position  rates  of  15  Hawaiian  litter  types  and  up  to  26%  ofthe  variation  in  enzyme  activities,  providing  evidence  thatmicrobial  interactions  in  the  decomposing  litter  vary  withcommunity  investment  in  extracellular  enzyme  productionand  the  magnitude  of  trade-offs  among  traits  that  repre-sent  alternative  microbial  strategies  for  resource  acquisi-tion  [73].  Limited  reports  using  trait-based  models  showtheir  ability  to  describe  the  ecological  community  or  theecosystem  as  a  whole  entity  thus  making  them  also  suit-able  for  studying  feedback  between  life  and  its  environ-ment  on  evolutionary  time  scales  [72–74] .  An  importantavenue  for  future  research  will  be  to  focus  on  whether  theintegration  of  these  microbial  diversity  modules  into  eco-system  models  can  improve  site,  regional,  and  global  pre-dictions  of  carbon  and  nutrient  cycling.  However,  using  ametagenomic  ‘parts  lists’  to  infer  global  patterns  on  micro-bial  ecology  is  a  signiﬁcant  challenge.  To  deduce  importantecological  indicators  such  as  environmental  adaptation,molecular  trait  dispersal  and  diversity  variation  from  agene  pool  of  an  ecosystem,  omics-derived  datasets  shouldbe  integrated  with  geochemical,  meteorological,  and  eco-logical  measurements.  This  information  should  further  beused  to  investigate  the  relationship  between  the  environ-ment  and  the  metagenome-derived  gene  or  pathway  rep-ertoire  of  an  ecosystem  and  the  interplay  betweenfunctional  composition  and  ecosystem  processes  such  asdecomposition.Bioclimatic  modelsPredictive  bioclimatic  models  deﬁne  the  habitable  geo-graphical  or  temporal  range  of  a  species  as  a  function  ofenvironmental  parameters  [17,65] .  An  artiﬁcial  neuralnetwork  approach  has  been  employed  to  develop  a  biocli-matic  model  that  can  predict  the  climate-dependent  abun-dance  of  microbial  taxa  in  space  and  time  [17].  Althoughthe  model  proposed  by  Larsen  et  al.  [17]  focused  on  pre-dicting  taxon  distributions,  a  similar  approach  using  shot-gun  metagenomics  data  could  be  leveraged  to  predict  theabundance  of  functional  genes  that  are  critical  to  globalbiogeochemical  cycles.  The  use  of  this  modelling  approachto  terrestrial  ecosystems  has  many  caveats  mainly  becauseof  the  heterogeneity  of  soils.  However,  the  relationship(s)between  microbial  taxa  shape  the  structure  of  microbialcommunities,  and  thus,  it  can  be  expected  that  nonrandomco-occurrence  patterns  and  signiﬁcant  inter-taxa  relation-ship  may  occur  in  soils.  In  fact  a  recent  study  using  themetagenomics  data  from  a  broad  range  of  environmentshas  revealed  co-occurrence  patterns  including  general  non-random  association,  common  life  history  strategies  atbroad  taxonomic  levels,  and  unexpected  relationships  be-tween  community  members  [64].  Bioclimatic  modelapproaches  can  be  used  to  document  new  microbial  inter-actions,  identify  shared  niche  spaces,  reveal  the  naturalhistories  of  microbial  taxa,  and  possibly  predict  how  globalclimate  change  may  impact  microbial  communities.Incorporating  microbial  ecology  to  biogeochemicalmodelsMany models  have  been  developed  to  address  questionsrelated  to  feedbacks  to  global  warming,  C  stocks  acrossregional  gradients,  and  N  dynamics  under  different  cli-mate  change  scenarios  or  land-use  management  (such  asthe  CENTURY,  DAISY,  DNDC,  Roth-C,  CANDY,  DAY-CENT,  and  others).  Most  of  these  models  are  regarded  asprocess-oriented  models  and  assume  that  microbial  com-munities  do  not  ultimately  inﬂuence  biogeochemical  cy-cling  either  in  time  or  space  [63,65] .  Combining  thesephysical  models  with  microbial  diversity  models,  in  whicha  number  of  microbial  phenotypes  are  initialized  and  theirinteraction  with  the  modelled  environment  determinestheir  ﬁtness,  should  enable  accurate  prediction  for  changesin  ecosystem  processes.  Recent  modelling  efforts  that  haveincorporated  microbial  dynamics  in  ecosystem  modelshave  simulated  terrestrial  C  dynamics  with  global  warm-ing  [51],  altered  moisture  regimes  [75],  and  N  deposition[76].  Several  models  have  also  been  developed  to  addressmicrobial  controls  on  decomposition  [65].  Incorporation  ofmicrobial  mechanisms  have  altered  (but  not  necessarilyimproved)  the  predictions  of  conventional  modelsReview Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12648Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.simulating  broad  ecological  process  under  altered  climateconditions  [63,65] .  In  a  recent  breakthrough,  Wieder  et  al.[77]  created  a  new  soil  biogeochemistry  module  for  use  inthe  Community  Land  Model  (CLM)  that  explicitly  repre-sents  microbial  mechanisms  of  soil  C  cycling  on  a  globalscale.  CLM  microbial  model  projects  a  much  wider  range  ofsoil  C  responses  wherein  the  ability  of  global  soils  tosequester  C  will  depend  on  microbial  growth  efﬁciencyand  their  adaptation  to  climate  change.  However,  valida-tion  and  parameterization  of  the  performance  of  thesemodels  is  challenging.  To  establish  the  advantages  ofmicrobial-based  models  in  comparison  to  conventionalmodels,  benchmarking  with  multiple  datasets  and  outputparameters  will  be  needed.  In  the  future,  experimentsproviding  insights  into  microbial  control  over  biogeochem-ical  cycles  and  quantitative  linkages  between  microbialdiversity  and/or  community  shifts  and  ecosystem  function-ing  are  essential  requirements  for  successful  incorporationof  microbial  functions  in  ecosystem  modelling  (Figure  3).The  next  challenge  will  be  to  develop  physiologicalparameterizations  that  directly  interface  between  molecu-lar,  genomic,  and  physiological  datasets  scaling  the  eco-logical  models  from  the  gene  to  ecosystem  level.Concluding  remarks  and  future  directionsMicrobial  communities  play  a  vital  and  undisputable  rolein  soil  C  storage  but  microbial  control  over  processes  thatfacilitate  soil  C  storage  remains  a  topic  of  debate.  Numer-ous  questions  remain  to  be  addressed  for  understandingmicrobial  control  over  C  cycling  in  terrestrial  ecosystems(Box  2).  A  comprehensive,  mechanistic  understanding  ofecosystem  responses  to  global  change  requires  thatresponses  at  the  organism  level  be  directly  related  toresponses  of  the  genome,  and  these  in  turn  be  linked  tohigher  levels  of  organization  (Figure  3).  In  the  future,  weanticipate  that  advances  in  single-cell  genomics,  bioinfor-matics,  and  metabolic  network  modelling  will  enable  theapplication  of  such  methods  to  provide  a  genomic–mecha-nistic  basis  for  biological  feedbacks  to  the  climate  systembrought  about  through  the  terrestrial  C  cycle.  LinkingEcosystemCommunityCellProtein complexFunc/g415onal genesPhylogene/g415c markers(16S/18S/ITS)Env. responsegenesGenesMicrobial genomeFull genome sequence of more microbes  (Flow sor/g415ng)Improvement in long read single molecule sequencingImprove genome annota/g415on  (Proteogenomic mapping,Fmoc SPSS)Be/g425er techniques for transcriptome and proteomics  (Digital geneexpression, RNA seq)High throughput gene func/g415on assay  (FTS assay)High throughput quan/g415ta/g415ve proteomics and metabolomics pla/g414orms(LC-IMS-TOF MS system)Genome scale metabolic modelsHigh throughput structural characteriza/g415on of protein complex(MAGGIE, PCAP)Improved culturing techniques (Gel microdroplet culturing)Single cell technologies (Microobserva/g415on chamber)Laboratory evolu/g415on experimentsMegasequencing projects  (Earthmicrobiome project)Genomic observatoriesmicroscale techniques(2D and 3D MALDI-TOF, NanoSIMS, NanoSIP,ChipSIP; CARD-FISH; EL-FISH)Cross-biome dataset(NEON, LTREB)High resolu/g415on, mul/g415factorial,/g415me series ﬁeld data (Real /g415mein situ  sensors, biological sensors,Remote sensing)ProteinsTRENDS in Microbiology Figure  3.  A  road  map  of  linking  a  microbial  genome  to  ecosystem  function.  This  scheme  shows  hypothetical  linkages  between  the  information  encoded  in  a  microbialgenome  and  the  community  interactions  that  can  drive  ecosystem  functions.  The  figure  on  the  left  shows  the  technical  requirements  needed  at  each  level  to  provide  linkagewith  the  next  level,  and  the  text  in  brackets  describes  the  newly  developed  tools  or  scientific  initiatives  to  achieve  the  objectives.  Each  step  will  also  require  robustcomputational  techniques  for  linkages  to  the  higher  level  and  ultimately  to  develop  predictive  ecosystem  models  (not  shown).  Abbreviations:  internal  transcribed  spacersequence  (ITS);  9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl  (Fmoc)-solid-phase  peptide  synthesis  (SPPS);  Molecular  Assemblies  Genes,  and  Genomics  Integrated  Efficiently  (MAGGIE)platform;  Protein  Complex  Analysis  Project  (PCAP);  fast  capillary  (LC)-ion  mobility  spectrometer  (IMS)-time-of-flight  mass  spectrometer  (TOF  MS);  fluorescence-basedthermal  shift  (FTS)  assay;  matrix-assisted  laser  desorption/ionization-time  of  flight  (MALDI-TOF);  nano-scale  secondary  ion  mass  spectrometry  (NanoSIMS);  stable  isotopeprobing  (SIP);  chip-stable  isotope  probing  (ChipSIP)  catalysed  reporter  deposition  (CARD)  and  elemental  level  (EL)  fluorescence  in  situ  hybridization  (FISH);  NationalEcological  Observatory  Network  (NEON);  Long  Term  Research  in  Environmental  Biology  (LTREB).Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12649Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.manipulative  experimentation  (i.e.,  mesocosm  approaches)with  computational  and  functional  genomics  will  provide  away  forward  for  linking  genomes  to  biomes.  Integrating  theinformation  gained  from  individual  cells  or  simple  micro-bial  communities  with  comprehensive  proﬁling  of  terres-trial  microbial  communities  will  provide  evidence  formicrobial  regulation  of  biogeochemical  cycles  [78]  andfeedback  in  response  to  climate  change  (Figure  3).  A  sys-tems  biology  approach,  which  couples  modelling  and  sim-ulation  with  experiment  and  theory,  will  relate  genome-based  microbial  ecophysiology  to  the  assessment  of  globalC  sequestration  strategies  and  climate  impacts.  As  thetechnology  develops,  the  combination  of  long-term  andcross-biome  microbial  data  will  be  used  to  inform  themicrobial  role  in  soil  C  storage.  The  emerging  ﬁeld  of  globalchange  microbial  ecology  will  generate  systematic,  openaccess  datasets  that  can  be  used  for  probing  the  morpho-logical  and  molecular  makeup,  diversity,  evolution,  andecology  of  soil  microbial  communities  as  well  as  theirimpacts  on  C  sequestration.  We  envisage  that  unravellingof  complex  interspecies  ecological  interactions  and  meta-bolic  networks  by  the  quantiﬁcation  of  molecular  functionswill  provide  both  the  parts  and  wiring  diagrams  for  model-ling  microbial  communities.  Incorporation  of  microbialmechanistic  behaviours  (cellular,  community,  and  ecosys-tem)  in  ecological  models  will  result  in  the  development  ofrobust  predictive  models  that  can  be  used  to  interpolate  orextrapolate  observed  interactions  among  microbes  andtheir  environment  thus  reducing  the  uncertainties  inassessments  of  global  change  on  terrestrial  C  stocks.  Com-prehensive  understanding  of  terrestrial  microbial  commu-nities  and  speciﬁc  processes  that  determine  the  rate  andfate  of  C  dynamics  will  increase  the  likelihood  of  successfulmanipulation  of  the  terrestrial  ecosystem  for  increasingstable  C  inventories.AcknowledgementsThis  work  was  funded  by  the  Grains  Research  and  DevelopmentCorporation  (GRDC),  Australia.References1  Schmidt,  M.W.  et  al.  (2011)  Persistence  of  soil  organic  matter  as  anecosystem  property.  Nature  478,  49–562  Reynaldo,  V.  et  al.  (2012)  The  beneﬁts  of  soil  carbon.  In  UNEP  YearBook .  19–333  Canadell,  J.G.  et  al.  (2007)  Contributions  to  accelerating  atmosphericCO 2growth  from  economic  activity,  carbon  intensity,  and  efﬁciency  ofnatural  sinks.  Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  U.S.A.  104,  18866–188704  Woodward,  F.I.  et  al.  (2009)  Biological  approaches  to  globalenvironmental  change  mitigation  and  remediation.  Curr.  Biol.  19,R615–R6235  Lal,  R.  (2004)  Soil  carbon  sequestration  impacts  on  global  climatechange  and  food  security.  Science  304,  1623–16276  King,  G.M.  (2011)  Enhancing  soil  carbon  storage  for  carbonremediation:  potential  contributions  and  constraints  by  microbes.Trends  Microbiol.  19,  75–847  Bardgett,  R.D.  (2008)  Microbial  contributions  to  climate  changethrough  carbon  cycle  feedbacks.  ISME  J.  2,  805–8148  Singh,  B.K.  et  al.  (2010)  Microorganisms  and  climate  change:terrestrial  feedbacks  and  mitigation  options.  Nat.  Rev.  Microbiol.  8,779–7909  Fierer,  N.  et  al.  (2007)  Toward  an  ecological  classiﬁcation  of  soilbacteria.  Ecology  88,  1354–136410  Fierer,  N.  et  al.  (2012)  Comparative  metagenomics,  phylogenetic,  andphysiological  analyses  of  soil  microbial  communities  across  nitrogengradients.  ISME  J.  6,  1007–101711  Uroz,  S.  et  al.  (2013)  Functional  assays  and  metagenomic  analysesreveals  differences  between  the  microbial  communities  inhabiting  thesoil  horizons  of  a  Norway  spruce  plantation.  PLoS  ONE  8,  e5592912  Fierer,  N.  et  al.  (2012)  Cross-biome  metagenomic  analysis  of  soilmicrobial  communities  and  their  functional  attributes.  Proc.  Natl.Acad.  Sci.  U.S.A.  109,  21390–2139513  Delmont,  T.O.  et  al.  (2012)  Structure,  ﬂuctuation  and  magnitude  of  anatural  grassland  soil  metagenome.  ISME  J.  6,  1677–168714  Mackelprang,  R.  et  al.  (2011)  Metagenomic  analysis  of  a  permafrostmicrobial  community  reveals  a  rapid  response  to  thaw.  Nature  480,368–37115  Yergeau,  E.  et  al.  (2010)  The  functional  potential  of  high  Arcticpermafrost  revealed  by  metagenomic  sequencing,  qPCR  andmicroarray  analyses.  ISME  J.  4,  1206–121416  Tveit,  A.  et  al.  (2013)  Organic  carbon  transformations  in  high-Arcticpeat  soils:  key  functions  and  microorganisms.  ISME  J.  7,  299–31117  Larsen,  P.E.  et  al.  (2012)  Predicting  bacterial  community  assemblagesusing  an  artiﬁcial  neural  network  approach.  Nat.  Methods  9,  621–62518  Bastian,  F.  et  al.  (2009)  Impact  of  wheat  straw  decomposition  onsuccessional  patterns  of  soil  microbial  community  structure.  SoilBiol.  Biochem.  41,  262–27519  Inceog ˘lu,  O¨.  et  al.  (2011)  Comparative  analysis  of  bacterialcommunities  in  a  potato  ﬁeld  as  determined  by  pyrosequencing.PLoS  ONE  6,  e2332120  Figuerola,  E.L.M.  et  al.  (2012)  Bacterial  indicator  of  agriculturalmanagement  for  soil  under  no-till  crop  production.  PLoS  ONE  7,e5107521  Hartmann,  M.  et  al.  (2012)  Signiﬁcant  and  persistent  impact  of  timberharvesting  on  soil  microbial  communities  in  Northern  coniferousforests.  ISME  J.  6,  2199–221822  Koeppel,  A.F.  and  Wu,  M.  (2012)  Lineage-dependent  ecologicalcoherence  in  bacteria.  FEMS  Microbiol.  Ecol.  81,  574–58223  Strickland,  M.S.  and  Rousk,  J.  (2010)  Considering  fungal:  bacterialdominance  in  soils–methods,  controls,  and  ecosystem  implications.  SoilBiol.  Biochem.  42,  1385–139524  Helgason,  B.  et  al.  (2009)  Fungal  and  bacterial  abundance  in  long-termno-till  and  intensive-till  soils  of  the  Northern  Great  Plains.  Soil  Sci.Soc.  Am.  J.  73,  120–12725  Mulder,  C.  and  Elser,  J.J.  (2009)  Soil  acidity,  ecological  stoichiometryand  allometric  scaling  in  grassland  food  webs.  Global  Change  Biol.  15,2730–273826  Fierer,  N.  et  al.  (2009)  Global  patterns  in  belowground  communities.Ecol.  Lett.  12,  1238–124927  Rousk,  J.  et  al.  (2010)  Soil  bacterial  and  fungal  communities  across  apH  gradient  in  an  arable  soil.  ISME  J.  4,  1340–135128  Baldrian,  P.  et  al.  (2011)  Active  and  total  microbial  communities  inforest  soil  are  largely  different  and  highly  stratiﬁed  duringdecomposition.  ISME  J.  6,  248–25829  Cheng,  L.  et  al.  (2012)  Arbuscular  mycorrhizal  fungi  increase  organiccarbon  decomposition  under  elevated  CO 2.  Science  337,  1084–108730  Schneider,  T.  et  al.  (2012)  Who  is  who  in  litter  decomposition  and  quest;metaproteomics  reveals  major  microbial  players  and  theirbiogeochemical  functions.  ISME  J.  6,  1749–176231  Verbruggen,  E.  et  al.  (2013)  Arbuscular  mycorrhizal  fungi–short-termliability  but  long-term  beneﬁts  for  soil  carbon  storage?  New  Phytol.  197,366–36832  Clemmensen,  K.E.  et  al.  (2013)  Roots  and  associated  fungi  drive  long-term  carbon  sequestration  in  boreal  forest.  Science  339,  1615–1618Box  2.  Outstanding  questions/C15  How  to  comprehensively  determine  the  makeup  and  geneticpotential  of  the  terrestrial  microbial  community?/C15  How  can  we  manipulate  the  soil  microbial  community  to  control  Cmobilization  and  storage  in  terrestrial  ecosystems?/C15  How  to  incorporate  microbial  community  patterns  and  processrates  into  a  rigorous  ecological  framework  when  most  ecosystemmodels  often  ‘black  box’  microbiology?/C15  How  to  integrate  knowledge  from  many  different  disciplines,  andacross  different  spatial  scales,  from  genomes  to  biomes,  in  orderto  formulate  sound  energy  and  land  management  policies?Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12650Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.33  Yuan,  H.  et  al.  (2012)  Microbial  autotrophy  plays  a  signiﬁcant  role  inthe  sequestration  of  soil  carbon.  Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  78,  2328–233634  Paul,  D.  et  al.  (2010)  Complete  genome  and  comparative  analysis  of  thechemolithoautotrophic  bacterium  Oligotropha  carboxidovorans  OM5.BMC  Genomics  11,  51135  Okubo,  T.  et  al.  (2012)  Complete  genome  sequence  of  Bradyrhizobiumsp.  S23321:  insights  into  symbiosis  evolution  in  soil  oligotrophs.Microbes  Environ.  27,  306–31536  Xia,  W.  et  al.  (2011)  Autotrophic  growth  of  nitrifying  community  in  anagricultural  soil.  ISME  J.  5,  1226–123637  Crawford,  J.W.  et  al.  (2012)  Microbial  diversity  affects  self-organization  of  the  soil–microbe  system  with  consequences  forfunction.  J.  R.  Soc.  Interface  9,  1302–131038  Mummey,  D.L.  et  al.  (2006)  Endogeic  earthworms  differentiallyinﬂuence  bacterial  communities  associated  with  different  soilaggregate  size  fractions.  Soil  Biol.  Biochem.  38,  1608–161439  Lennon,  J.T.  et  al.  (2012)  Mapping  the  niche  space  of  soilmicroorganisms  using  taxonomy  and  traits.  Ecology  3,  1867–187940  Ward,  N.L.  et  al.  (2009)  Three  genomes  from  the  phylum  Acidobacteriaprovide  insight  into  the  lifestyles  of  these  microorganisms  in  soils.Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  75,  2046–205641  Davinic,  M.  et  al.  (2012)  Pyrosequencing  and  mid-infrared  spectroscopyreveal  distinct  aggregate  stratiﬁcation  of  soil  bacterial  communitiesand  organic  matter  composition.  Soil  Biol.  Biochem.  46,  63–7242  Whittinghill,  K.A.  et  al.  (2012)  Anthropogenic  N  depositionincreases  soil  C  storage  by  decreasing  the  extent  of  litter  decay:analysis  of  ﬁeld  observations  with  an  ecosystem  model.  Ecosystems15,  450–46143  Ramirez,  K.S.  (2012)  Consistent  effects  of  nitrogen  amendments  on  soilmicrobial  communities  and  processes  across  biomes.  Global  ChangeBiol.  18,  1918–192744  Eisenlord,  S.D.  et  al.  (2013)  Microbial  mechanisms  mediatingincreased  soil  C  storage  under  elevated  atmospheric  N  deposition.Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  79,  1191–119945  Taub,  D.  (2010)  Effects  of  rising  atmospheric  concentrations  of  carbondioxide  on  plants.  Nat.  Educ.  Knowl.  3,  2146  Dunbar,  J.  et  al.  (2012)  Common  bacterial  responses  in  six  ecosystemsexposed  to  10  years  of  elevated  atmospheric  carbon  dioxide.  Environ.Microbiol.  14,  1145–115847  He,  Z.  et  al.  (2010)  Metagenomic  analysis  reveals  a  marked  divergencein  the  structure  of  belowground  microbial  communities  at  elevatedCO 2.  Ecol.  Lett.  13,  564–57548  He,  Z.  et  al.  (2011)  The  phylogenetic  composition  and  structure  of  soilmicrobial  communities  shifts  in  response  to  elevated  carbon  dioxide.ISME  J.  2,  259–27249  Deng,  Y.  et  al.  (2012)  Elevated  carbon  dioxide  alters  the  structure  of  soilmicrobial  communities.  Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  78,  2991–299550  Nie,  M.  et  al.  (2013)  Positive  climate  feedbacks  of  soil  microbialcommunities  in  a  semi-arid  grassland.  Ecol.  Lett.  16,  234–24151  Allison,  S.D.  et  al.  (2010)  Soil-carbon  response  to  warming  dependenton  microbial  physiology.  Nat.  Geosci.  5,  336–34052  Sheik,  C.S.  et  al.  (2011)  Effect  of  warming  and  drought  on  grasslandmicrobial  communities.  ISME  J.  5,  1692–170053  Zhou,  J.  et  al.  (2011)  Microbial  mediation  of  carbon-cycle  feedbacks  toclimate  warming.  Nat.  Clim.  Change  2,  106–11054  Floudas,  D.  et  al.  (2012)  The  Paleozoic  origin  of  enzymatic  lignindecomposition  reconstructed  from  31  fungal  genomes.  Science  336,1715–171955  Zimmerman,  A.E.  (2013)  Microdiversity  of  extracellular  enzyme  genesamong  sequenced  prokaryotic  genomes.  ISME  J.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ismej.2012.17656  Berlemont,  R.  and  Martiny,  A.C.  (2013)  Phylogenetic  distribution  ofpotential  cellulases  in  bacteria.  Appl.  Environ.  Microbiol.  79,  1545–155457  Goldfarb,  K.C.  et  al.  (2011)  Differential  growth  responses  of  soilbacterial  taxa  to  carbon  substrates  of  varying  chemicalrecalcitrance.  Front.  Microbiol.  2,  9458  Taghavi,  S.  et  al.  (2010)  Genome  sequence  of  the  plant  growthpromoting  endophytic  bacterium  Enterobacter  sp.  638.  PLoS  Genet.6,  e100094359  Mongodin,  E.F.  et  al.  (2006)  Secrets  of  soil  survival  revealed  by  thegenome  sequence  of  Arthrobacter  aurescens  TC1.  PLoS  Genet.  2,  e21460  Placella,  S.A.  et  al.  (2012)  Rainfall-induced  carbon  dioxide  pulses  resultfrom  sequential  resuscitation  of  phylogenetically  clustered  microbialgroups.  Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  U.S.A.  109,  10931–1093661  Barabote,  R.D.  and  Milton,  H.S.  (2005)  Comparative  genomic  analysesof  the  bacterial  phosphotransferase  system.  Microbiol.  Mol.  Biol.  Rev.69,  608–63462  Davidson,  E.A.  and  Janssens,  I.A.  (2006)  Temperature  sensitivity  ofsoil  carbon  decomposition  and  feedbacks  to  climate  change.  Nature440,  165–17363  Todd-Brown,  K.E.O.  et  al.  (2012)  A  framework  for  representingmicrobial  decomposition  in  coupled  climate  models.  Biogeochemistry109,  19–3364  Barbera ´n,  A.  et  al.  (2011)  Using  network  analysis  to  explore  co-occurrence  patterns  in  soil  microbial  communities.  ISME  J.  6,  343–35165  Treseder,  K.K.  et  al.  (2012)  Integrating  microbial  ecology  into  ecosystemmodels:  challenges  and  priorities.  Biogeochemistry  109,  7–1866  Vetsigian,  K.  et  al.  (2011)  Structure  and  evolution  of  Streptomycesinteraction  networks  in  soil  and  in  silico.  PLoS  Biol.  9,  e100118467  Gras,  A.  et  al.  (2011)  Individual-based  modelling  of  carbon  and  nitrogendynamics  in  soils:  parameterization  and  sensitivity  analysis  ofmicrobial  components.  Ecol.  Model.  222,  1998–201068  Freilich,  S.  et  al.  (2011)  Competitive  and  cooperative  metabolicinteractions  in  bacterial  communities.  Nat.  Commun.  2,  58969  Zhuang,  K.  et  al.  (2010)  Genome-scale  dynamic  modeling  of  thecompetition  between  Rhodoferax  and  Geobacter  in  anoxic  subsurfaceenvironments.  ISME  J.  5,  305–31670  Zhou,  J.  et  al.  (2010)  Functional  molecular  ecological  networks.  MBio  1,  471  Deng,  Y.  et  al.  (2012)  Molecular  ecological  network  analyses.  BMCBioinformatics  13,  11372  Bouskill,  N.J.  et  al.  (2012)  Trait-based  representation  of  biologicalnitriﬁcation:  model  development,  testing,  and  predicted  communitycomposition.  Front.  Microbiol.  3,  36473  Allison,  S.D.  (2012)  A  trait-based  approach  for  modelling  microbiallitter  decomposition.  Ecol.  Lett.  15,  1058–107074  Wallenstein,  M.D.  and  Hall,  E.K.  (2012)  A  trait-based  framework  forpredicting  when  and  where  microbial  adaptation  to  climate  change  willaffect  ecosystem  functioning.  Biogeochemistry  109,  35–4775  Lawrence,  C.R.  (2009)  Does  adding  microbial  mechanisms  ofdecomposition  improve  soil  organic  matter  models?  A  comparison  offour  models  using  data  from  a  pulsed  rewetting  experiment.  Soil  Biol.Biochem.  41,  1923–193476  Gerber,  S.  et  al.  (2010)  Nitrogen  cycling  and  feedbacks  in  a  globaldynamic  land  model.  Global  Biogeochem.  Cycles  24,  http://dx.doi.org/10.1029/2008GB00333677  Wieder,  W.R.  et  al.  (2013)  Global  soil  carbon  projections  are  improvedby  modeling  microbial  processes.  Nat.  Clim.  Change  http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/NCLIMATE195178  Nazaries,  L.  et  al.  (2013)  Methane,  microbes  and  models:  fundamentalunderstanding  of  the  soil  methane  cycle  for  future  predictions.Environ.  Microbiol.  http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/1462-2920.1214979  Abhilash,  P.C.  et  al.  (2012)  Plant–microbe  interactions:  novelapplications  for  exploitation  in  multipurpose  remediationtechnologies.  Trends  Biotechnol.  30,  416–42080  Bulgarelli,  D.  et  al.  (2012)  Revealing  structure  and  assembly  cues  forArabidopsis  root-inhabiting  bacterial  microbiota.  Nature  488,  91–9581  Lundberg,  D.S.  et  al.  (2012)  Deﬁning  the  core  Arabidopsis  thaliana  rootmicrobiome.  Nature  488,  86–9082  Lau,  J.A.  and  Lennon,  J.T.  (2012)  Rapid  responses  of  soilmicroorganisms  improve  plant  ﬁtness  in  novel  environments.  Proc.Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  U.S.A.  109,  14058–1406283  Trivedi,  P.  et  al.  (2011)  Huanglongbing  alters  the  structure  andfunctional  diversity  of  microbial  communities  associated  with  citrusrhizosphere.  ISME  J.  6,  363–383Review Trends  in  Microbiology  December  2013,  Vol.  21,  No.  12651Downloaded for Anonymous User (n/a) at National Cheng Kung University from ClinicalKey.com by Elsevier on March 21, 2023. For personal use only. No other uses without permission. Copyright ©2023. Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.