Citation: Koza, N.A.; Adedayo, A.A.;Babalola, O.O.; Kappo, A.P .Microorganisms in Plant Growth andDevelopment: Roles in Abiotic StressTolerance and Secondary MetabolitesSecretion. Microorganisms 2022 ,10,1528. https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms10081528Academic Editors: Essaid Ait Barka,Egamberdieva Dilfuza, NaveenKumar Arora and Wen Jun LiReceived: 4 May 2022Accepted: 25 July 2022Published: 28 July 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).microorganismsReviewMicroorganisms in Plant Growth and Development: Roles inAbiotic Stress Tolerance and Secondary Metabolites SecretionNtombikhona Appear Koza1, Afeez Adesina Adedayo2, Olubukola Oluranti Babalola2,*and Abidemi Paul Kappo3,*1Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Zululand, KwaDlangezwa 3886, South Africa2Food Security and Safety Focus Area, Faculty of Natural and Agricultural Science, North-West University,Mmabatho 2735, South Africa3Molecular Biophysics and Structural Biology Group, Department of Biochemistry, University of Johannesburg,Auckland Park 2006, South Africa*Correspondence: olubukola.babalola@nwu.ac.za (O.O.B.); akappo@uj.ac.za (A.P .K.);Tel.: +27-18-389-2568 (O.O.B.); +27-11-559-3182 (A.P .K.); Fax: +27-11-559-2605 (O.O.B.)Abstract: Crops aimed at feeding an exponentially growing population are often exposed to a varietyof harsh environmental factors. Although plants have evolved ways of adjusting their metabolismand some have also been engineered to tolerate stressful environments, there is still a shortage of foodsupply. An alternative approach is to explore the possibility of using rhizosphere microorganisms inthe mitigation of abiotic stress and hopefully improve food production. Several studies have shownthat rhizobacteria and mycorrhizae organisms can help improve stress tolerance by enhancing plantgrowth; stimulating the production of phytohormones, siderophores, and solubilizing phosphates;lowering ethylene levels; and upregulating the expression of dehydration response and antioxidantgenes. This article shows the secretion of secondary metabolites as an additional mechanism em-ployed by microorganisms against abiotic stress. The understanding of these mechanisms will helpimprove the efﬁcacy of plant-growth-promoting microorganisms.Keywords: abiotic stress; endophytes; plant biotechnology; plant microbiomes; secondary metabolites1. IntroductionA signiﬁcant problem for humanity in the 21st century is the production of sufﬁcientfood for an exponentially growing population [ 1]. This challenge is compounded by adecline of arable farmlands brought about by human occupancy, soil degradation, and awide variety of environmental factors, including ﬂooding, drought, salinity, temperature(extreme heat and cold), and pollution by heavy metals [ 2]. Plants, being sessile, haveevolved ways through which they perceive and respond adaptively to stress conditions,and some of the most common and extensively documented include the production ofosmolytes, alteration of water movement, and scavenging of reactive oxygen species [3].Plant biotechnological methods have been used to develop crop varieties that can resistdisease, tolerate stressful conditions, and above all, provide better nutritional value [ 4].These methods involve the selection and introduction of desirable traits from one plantto another by means of conventional breeding or genetic engineering [ 4]. Although theseapproaches can potentially produce genetically modiﬁed crops/plants capable of with-standing stressful conditions, their affordability and availability to only developed nationsis a limiting factor that still needs to be addressed. Microorganisms are mainly consid-ered harmful due to their disease-causing properties [ 5]. However, some are beneﬁcialin agriculture, and are now being used in the production of sustainable food crops [ 5,6].Beneﬁcial microorganisms have been shown to play a role in atmospheric nitrogen ﬁxation,organic wastes and residues decomposition, detoxiﬁcation of pesticides, suppression ofplant diseases and soil-borne pathogens, enhancement of nutrient cycling, and productionMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528. https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms10081528 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/microorganismsMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 2 of 20of bioactive compounds such as vitamins, hormones, and enzymes that upregulate plantgrowth [ 7,8]. Examples of microorganisms that have been used to limit abiotic stress in-clude plant-growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and plant-growth-promoting fungi(PGPF) [3,9,10].Studies have shown that beneﬁcial microbes suppress abiotic stress using variousstrategies including growth promotion by stimulating the production of phytohormones,siderophores, and solubilizing phosphates; lowering ethylene levels; and upregulatingthe expression of dehydration response and antioxidant genes [ 2]. Kushwaha, et al. [ 11]reported that root-colonizing bacteria produce phytohormones that alleviated salinity-induced dormancy and elicited seedling growth. Moreover, Kumar, et al. [ 12] showedthat plant-growth-promoting bacteria Pseudomonas sp. and Bacillus promoted growthin stressed plants by producing indole acetic acid (IAA), siderophores, and solubilizingphosphates. Furthermore, some of these plant-growth-promoting microorganisms con-tain 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylase (ACC) deaminase, an enzyme that cleaves plants’ethylene precursor ACC, thereby inhibiting ethylene synthesis in stressed plants [ 13,14].Lowered ethylene levels resulted in root growth and improved the survival of stressedplants [ 15]. While it was clear that ACC-deaminase-containing microorganisms and phyto-hormones helped alleviate various stresses in plants, it has been documented that othermicroorganisms employ different strategies to confer stress tolerance to plants [16].Kaushal [ 17] showed that rhizobacterium Paenibacillus polymyxa enhanced droughtstress tolerance by augmenting the expression of the EARLY RESPONSIVE TO DEHYDRA-TION 15 (ERD15) gene. More so, Zhang, et al. [ 18] showed that Arbuscular mycorrhizal(AM) fungus improved plant growth, biomass production, and osmotic adjustment (byincreasing the uptake of K+, Ca2+, and Mg2+ions) of drought-stressed tangerine ( Citrus tan-gerine ). Some PGPR strains have also been shown to improve stress tolerance by producingantioxidants that degrade reactive oxygen species (ROS) [ 19]. AM fungal hyphae can reachsoil pores that are not reachable by root hairs, assimilating water and nutrients that cannotbe assessed by non-AM plants [ 20], thereby promoting plant growth by changing theplant–water relationship, resulting in improved efﬁciency of water use and, consequently,promoting the yield of the crop [ 21]. Beneﬁcial strains of mycorrhizal are occasionallyemployed in consortium with PGPR for enhanced efﬁciency in plant growth promotion,making mycorrhizal symbiosis utilization more attractive for sustainable agricultural pro-ductivity [21].Although most reports show that abiotic stress relief by microorganisms is through theactivation of primary metabolisms such as plant growth, nutrient uptake, photosynthesis,and antioxidant enzymes, there is evidence implicating the involvement of secondarymetabolites [ 22]. Some secondary metabolites such as ﬂavonoids, phytoalexins, phenyl-propanoids, and carotenoids have been documented in stressed plants inoculated withmicroorganisms [ 23,24]. These secondary metabolites help plants tolerate abiotic stress byacting as antioxidants that scavenge ROS [ 25]. Both fungi and bacteria have been commonlyimplicated in the induction of secondary metabolites in stressed plants.The soil remains an unpredictable environment due to numerous factors presenttherein; hence, there is difﬁculty in explaining the dynamic interactions that exist within.These factors include soil type, climatic condition, pH, temperature, an abundance of othermicrobes in the rhizosphere, and the type of plants growing in a particular soil, as well aschemical fertilization of the soil, which affects the colonization of plant roots [ 26]. Eventhough there seems to be great variability in the colonization of plants by microorganisms,there is a possibility that positive effects may be obtained. It has been shown that whenmicrobes are isolated from harsh environmental stress conditions, the alleviation of abioticstress is possible [ 27,28]. Hence, this review article discusses the beneﬁcial effects ofmicrobes on abiotically stressed plants and highlights the microbial strains that are effectiveat reducing abiotic stress effects to deploy them under extreme environmental conditions.Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 3 of 202. Abiotic StressAbiotic stress is an environmental factor that limits plant growth and metabolism [ 29].It has been estimated that abiotic stresses reduce yields and production of major foodand cash crops by more than 50% [ 30]. There are two classes of abiotic stresses, namelyabove and below ground abiotic stresses. Atmospheric-induced abiotic stresses are thosethat originate from the atmosphere, whereas edaphic abiotic stresses occur in the soil [ 31].Abiotic stresses of atmospheric origin are common in areas where climate variabilityand precipitation patterns change with longer periods of drought intermixed with spellsof heavy rainfall [ 32]. Abiotic stresses of edaphic origin, on the other hand, may arisefrom anthropogenic activities involving the use of brackish water and sewage water forirrigation, sewage sludge for fertilization, and inorganic chemicals for fumigation [ 33].This problem is often exacerbated by improper waste disposal methods, weathering ofnative rocks, and poor cultural practices, which have rendered huge expanse of landsunarable for crop production [ 10,23]. If these stresses are not properly managed they willﬂuctuate signiﬁcantly in intensity and duration, thereby exhibiting a net effect on globalagriculture [3].2.1. Effects of Abiotic Stress on PlantsAbiotic stresses are known to trigger a series of molecular events leading to changes inthe morphology, physiology, and biochemistry of plants [ 34]. This review paid a closer lookat the effects of drought, soil salinity, soil pollutant, and extreme temperature (Figure 1)on plant morphology, physiology, and biochemistry. Drought, a meteorological termused to deﬁne a period without substantial rainfall, affects 26% of arable lands and it isconsidered a major limiting factor among other abiotic stresses [ 35]. It constrains yieldstability and crop production in arid and semiarid areas [ 36]. It is a meteorological termused to deﬁne a period without substantial rainfall [ 37]. It has been reported that one-third of the world’s population resides in areas where water is scarce [ 35]. Drought alsodepends on evaporative demands and moisture-storing capacity of the soil in the area [ 38].Drought stress in plants does not only affect yield and crop productivity, but it also restrictsplants’ ability to assimilate soil nutrients and water; and inhibit photosynthesis; reducesendogenous cytokinin levels, while increasing that of abscisic acid in the leaves, therebycausing the stomata to close [39].To prevent water loss, plants respond by closing the stomata early to maintain thewater level inside the plants. However, this response has negative effects during gaseousexchange such as the plants’ intake of water vapor, carbon dioxide (CO 2), and oxygen (O 2)from the air using their leaves [ 40]. The decrease in CO 2for instance affects photosynthesissince CO 2limitation causes a decrease in photosynthetic ﬁxation in plants [ 25]. Furthermore,stomata closure disrupts the photosynthetic machinery of plants as the oxygen level isreduced by photosystem I, resulting in the production of superoxide (O2 ) and H 2O2,which hastens the water–water cycle [2].Stomatal closure also interrupts transpiration, which is an important barrier betweengas and water loss in the soil [ 40]. Moreover, drought stress in plants also leads to molecularand biochemical changes. Water deﬁcit strongly affects activities that are very sensitiveto water limitation such as cell wall formation, cell expansion, maintenance of turgorpressure, and vital metabolic functions [ 41]. Under drought stress, plants undergo differentstructural modiﬁcations such as the reduction in height and size of leaves, stems, shoots,and roots [ 42]. A study by Yordanov and colleagues (2000) reported a close correlationbetween “drought resistance” and “dehydrated accumulation” in Populus spp. and wheat(Triticum spp.) [ 41]. Furthermore, severe drought in plants can also lead to oxidative stress,which affects biomolecules’ structure and functions. Oxidative stress causes the oxidationof nucleic acids, protein, membrane lipid peroxidation, and enzyme inhibition [43].Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 4 of 20Microorganisms 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4 of 21   causes the oxidation of nucleic acids, protein, membrane lipid peroxidation, and enzyme inhibition [43].  Figure 1. Effect of abiotic stress on plant morphology, physiology, and biochemistry.  Abiotic fac-tors have negative effects on plants’ growth, quantity, and quality; these effects can reduce plant productivity and permanently  damages the plants when exposed for a longer period. High con-centration s of sodium (Na), Chloride (Cl), and potassium (K) cause ion cytotoxicity in plants; the closure of stomata inhibit the exchange of oxygen (O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2). Plants leaves have been damaged by air pollutants such nitrogen oxide (NO 2), ozone (O 3), and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and soil pollutants such as mercury, iron (Fe), zinc (Zn) , and copper (Cu) (UN -Oceans 2008) . Lastly, all abiotic stresses leads to the overproduction of ROS , such as superoxide anions (O2−) and hy-drogen peroxide (H 2O2), which are very reactive and damage or kill the plant.  Mineral toxicity or deficiency is the second major limiting factor with enormous ef-fects on agricultural productivity. Among mineral toxicity factors, salinity is widespread and is estimated to affect 10% of the world ’s land surface, especially in irrigated areas. If Figure 1. Effect of abiotic stress on plant morphology, physiology, and biochemistry. Abiotic factorshave negative effects on plants’ growth, quantity, and quality; these effects can reduce plant produc-tivity and permanently damages the plants when exposed for a longer period. High concentrations ofsodium (Na), Chloride (Cl), and potassium (K) cause ion cytotoxicity in plants; the closure of stomatainhibit the exchange of oxygen (O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2). Plants leaves have been damaged byair pollutants such nitrogen oxide (NO 2), ozone (O 3), and sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and soil pollutantssuch as mercury, iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), and copper (Cu) (UN-Oceans 2008). Lastly, all abiotic stressesleads to the overproduction of ROS, such as superoxide anions (O2 ) and hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2),which are very reactive and damage or kill the plant.Mineral toxicity or deﬁciency is the second major limiting factor with enormous effectson agricultural productivity. Among mineral toxicity factors, salinity is widespread andis estimated to affect 10% of the world’s land surface, especially in irrigated areas. If leftunattended, increasing salinity is predicted to have a devastating effect on about 50% ofMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 5 of 20the land devoted to crop production by 2050 [ 32]. Salinity affects plants in three ways:Restriction of water uptake hinders the nutrient absorption mechanism and the inductionof ion cytotoxicity. Firstly, salinity restricts water uptake by impairing the ability of plantsto absorb water from the soil leading to lower soil water potential. Secondly, it interfereswith the plant’s nutrient absorption mechanism, thereby causing a nutrient imbalance inplants [43].Under long-term salt stress, ionic components in plants are elevated, thereby increasingion concentration, which is very poisonous to plants, leading to ion cytotoxicity [ 44]. Ioncytotoxicity-associated leaf death, for instance, reduces the photosynthetic capacity of plantsby minimizing carbohydrates’ uptake by young leaves, which is necessary for growth,thus reducing the growth rate of the plants in totality [ 40]. High salt concentration inplants leads to toxic Na+concentration and membrane lipid peroxidation; the toxicity canseriously affect the concentration of both Cl and Na+. Increased Na+concentration canlead to the inhibition of potassium (K+) ion uptake, which plays an important role in plants’physiological processes such as protein synthesis, osmotic regulation, and enzyme activity.Deﬁciency in K+leads to ion imbalance, loss of protein function, and conformationalchanges in biochemical reactions in plants [ 45]. Finally, salinity has been shown to imposetoxic effects such as protein synthesis inhibition, cell organelle damage, disruption ofenzyme structure architecture, and the uncoupling of photosynthesis and respiration inplants [ 45]. Plants under excessive salts stress show structural phenotypes such as yellowspots (necrosis) on leaf edges; decreased root and height growth, root, shoot, and stemlength, and bud formation; and degenerate fruit color and ﬂavor [ 30]. These effects aresimilar to those imposed by drought stress on plants, and as a result, retards growth andreduces yield [46].Soil contamination by heavy metals is another form of mineral toxicity with physio-logical relevance in plants. Anomalous high concentrations of heavy metals in soils are dueto mining, parental rocks, and metal processing [ 47]. The commonly encountered effects ofheavy metal toxicity in plants are demonstrated by limited photosynthetic rate, increasedheavy metal uptake, and the disruption of root hydraulic conductivity via apoplastic andsymplastic pathways [ 48]. The soil is composed of different heavy metals such as mercury,arsenic, nickel, copper, chromium, lead, cadmium, zinc, and iron, which play an importantbiological role in plant growth and development. Anthropogenic activities and releasesfrom natural resources in the form of continental dust and volcanic activities remain themajor source of heavy metals [ 49]. A high concentration of heavy metals strongly affectsplant growth by causing toxic effects that hinder nutrient uptake by the plants, leadingto the impairment of membrane integrity and also affecting enzyme activity of the plants’cells. The toxicity of heavy metals can lead to the production of ROS and oxidative stress,which further inhibits enzyme activity and blocks metabolite functional groups in plantcells. A high concentration of iron (Fe2+) in plant cells is harmful as this metal highly reactswith oxygen to form ROS [ 50]. Overstimulation of ROS results in oxidative stress andconsequently damages plant organelles leading to the eventual death of the plant [49].Another major limiting factor to crop production are temperature stress. When tem-peratures fall below zero, plants are exposed to various freezing stress. These includeosmotic injury, desiccation, loss of stomatal control, reduced efﬁciency of the photosyn-thetic apparatus through pigment modiﬁcation, the decline in ﬂuorescence, and impairedchloroplast apparatus. Plants are also sensitive to temperature ﬂuctuations [ 51]. It has beenshown that a sudden increase in the ambient temperature by 5–7C creates heat stress inplants. These temperatures have been reported to disrupt photosynthesis, reduce plantwater, interfere with ﬂowering/fruiting, and attract pests and diseases [ 52]. Temperature-related effects on plants have been reported in tropical and temperate regions of the world.Chilling stress, for example, is a form of temperature stress, a nonfreezing stress that plantsexperience when the temperature reduces from 15 to 0C [53]. Regarding sensitive plants,this stress causes numerous injuries such as mechanical constraints (membrane integrity),osmotic stress, increased respiration and ethylene production, loss of chlorophyll andMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 6 of 20reduction in photosynthesis, uneven ripening, disease susceptibility, water soaking, andsurface pitting. Figure 1 depicts the effect of abiotic stress on plant morphology, physiology,and biochemistry.2.2. Bacteria in Abiotic Stress ToleranceOf all the microorganisms found in the soil, bacteria are by far the most common [ 54];hence, some of them found colonizing the roots of plants are referred to as PGPR. Numer-ous bacterial families have been shown to be involved in the improvement of plant growthunder stressful conditions (Figure 2). In drought-stressed plants, it has been shown thatPGPR such as Paenibacillus polymyxa, Achromobacter piechaudi, Azospirillum brasilense, Pseu-domonas sp.,Burkholderia, Arthrobacter, Microccocus luteus , and Bacillus enhanced the droughttolerance of Arabidopsis thaliana [16], pepper, tomato [ 13,22], wheat [ 55] and maize [ 56]plants. Some of these bacterial-induced tolerances have been associated with an increasein mRNA transcription of the drought-response gene EARLY RESPONSIVE TO DEHY-DRATION 15 (ERD15), the production of 1-aminocycloropropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC)deaminase, stronger proline synthesis, and an improvement of relative and absolute watercontent [ 25]. Kasim and colleagues (2013) reported that priming with two PGPR strains,Bacillus amyloliquefaciens 5113 and Azospirillum brasilense NO40, attenuated drought-inducedstress results in wheat plants by increasing the activity of antioxidant enzymes (glutathioneperoxidases (GPXs)) against ROS [ 55]. These ﬁndings supported the potential of the useof PGPR in controlling drought stress and increasing crop production. Carlson, et al. [ 57]proposed that the physical and chemical changes that PGPR elicit to protect plants fromabiotic stress be referred to as “induced systemic tolerance” (IST).Microorganisms 2022 , 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 21   Regarding sensitive plants, this stress causes numerous injuries such as mechanical con-straints (membrane integrit y), osmotic stress, increased respiration and ethylene pro-duction, loss of chlorophyll and reduction in photosynthesis, uneven ripening, disease susceptibility, water soaking, and surface pitting. Figure 1 depicts the effect of abiotic stress on plant morp hology, physiology, and biochemistry.  2.2. Bacteria in Abiotic Stress Tolerance  Of all the microorganisms found in the soil, bacteria are by far the most common [54]; hence , some of them found colonizing the roots of plants are referred to as PGPR. Numerous bacterial families have been s hown to be involved in the improvement of plant growth under stressful conditions (Figure 2). In drought -stressed plants, it has been shown that PGPR such as Paenibacillus polymyxa, Achromobacter piechaudi, Azospirillum brasilense, Pseudomonas sp.,  Burkhol deria, Arthrobacter, Microccocus luteus , and Bacillus  en-hanced the drought tolerance of Arabidopsis  thaliana  [16], pepper , tomato [13,22], wheat  [55] and maize [56]  plants. Some of these bacterial -induced tolerances have been associ-ated with an increase in  mRNA transcription of the  drought -response gene EARLY RE-SPONSIVE TO DEHYDRATION 15 (ERD15), the production of 1-aminocycloropropane -1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase, stronger proline synthesis,  and an improvement of relative and absolute water content  [25]. Kasim and colleagues (2013) reported that priming with two PGPR strains, Bacillus  amyloliquefaciens  5113 and Azospirillum  brasilense NO40, attenuated drought- induced st ress results in wheat plants by increasing the activity of antioxidant enzymes (glutathione peroxidases (GPXs)) against ROS  [55]. These findings supported the potential of the use of PGPR in control-ling drought stress and increasing crop production. Carlson , et al.  [57] proposed that the physical and chemical changes that PGPR elicit to protec t plants from abiotic stress be referred to as “ induced systemic tolerance ” (IST).   Figure 2. Proposed model of PGPR and AM against abiotic stress in plants:  Microorganisms colo-nize roots by using different mechanisms such as  triggering an ionic and osmotic response. Micro-bial inoculation , such as PGPR indicated in brown on the plants ’ roots, AM,  and EM , indicated with a green solid arrow , are often reported to protect plants against water drought stress, thus in-creasing dehydration intolerance. PGPR, AM, and EM have shown to produce antioxidant activi-ties (yellow arrow) such as catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD), and superoxide dismutase  (SOD) , which improves osm otic adjustment in plants and secondary metabolites (broken blue arrows) Figure 2. Proposed model of PGPR and AM against abiotic stress in plants: Microorganisms colonizeroots by using different mechanisms such as triggering an ionic and osmotic response. Microbialinoculation, such as PGPR indicated in brown on the plants’ roots, AM, and EM, indicated with agreen solid arrow, are often reported to protect plants against water drought stress, thus increasingdehydration intolerance. PGPR, AM, and EM have shown to produce antioxidant activities (yellowarrow) such as catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD), and superoxide dismutase (SOD), which improvesosmotic adjustment in plants and secondary metabolites (broken blue arrows) such as cytokinin(CKs), gibberellins (GAs), ethylene (ET), and auxins (IAA), which elicit stress tolerance in plants,resulting in root surface area, root length, and the number of root tips. Antioxidants and secondarymetabolites help in enhancing the uptake of nutrients from the soil by the roots to produce a highyield of plant crops [58].IST via PGPR has also been documented in the mitigation of salt stress in variousplants. In lettuce seeds, Azospirillum inoculation improved germination and vegetativeMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 7 of 20growth when exposed to NaCl [ 57]. Some studies have also highlighted the relevance ofdecreasing endogenous ethylene levels as bacterial-mediated tolerance to salt stress [ 59].ACC deaminase-containing bacteria such as Achromobacter piechaudii ARV8, Pseudomonasﬂuorescens, and Bacillus sp. have been shown to improve salt tolerance in the growthof tomato seedlings, groundnuts, and the salinity-induced osmotic stress of pepper [ 55].P . ﬂuorescens has also been shown to improve tolerance by decreasing the synthesis ofosmolytes and the production of salt stress proteins such as osmotins and dehydrins [ 56].Kerbab, et al. [ 60] found that in some instances PGPRs are effective at reducing salt stresseffects when inoculated in combination with other microbes. For example, Pseudomonasmendocina , alone or in combination with an AM fungus such as Glomus intraradices orGlomus mosseae, synergistically improves growth, nutrient uptake, and other physiologicalactivities of salt-stressed Lactuca sativa .PGPR have long been shown to also combat the effects of extreme temperatures.Keswani, et al. [ 61] found that the bacterial strain Pseudomonas putida GR 12-2 promotedgrowth and root elongation of canola when exposed to 5C during both springs andwinter. Other studies showed that bacterial strains such as Serratia liquefaciens ,Serratiaproteamaculans, and Bradyrhizobium japonicum had beneﬁcial effects on the growth andphysiology of soybeans grown under suboptimal root zone temperatures [ 61]. Furthermore,it was observed that the inoculation of potatoes with rhizobacteria such as Burkholderiaphytoﬁrmans PsJN played an adaptive role in heat stress. The same bacteria, Burkholderiaphytoﬁrmans PsJN, when inoculated with cold-stressed grapevine Vitis vinifera , loweredbiomass reduction and electrolyte leakage from membranes [ 62]. The bacterial “IST” to coldstress includes increasing sugar levels, upregulating the expression of antifreeze-containingproteins, and increasing the levels of proline content [63].PGPR has also been implicated in the alleviation of heavy metal stress. Pseudomonasbrassicacearum strains were isolated and characterized, and Pseudomonas marginalis ,Pseu-domonas oryzihabitans ,Pseudomonas putida ,Pseudomonas tolaasii ACC23, Alcaligenes xylosoxi-dans, Alkaligenes sp. ZN4, Variovorax paradoxus, Bacillus pumilus, and Rhodococcus sp. can beused to counteract the effect of cadmium stress on plants. They found that these bacterialstrains improved the growth of the metal-accumulating plant Brassica juncea [ 64]. It hasalso been documented that the PGPR strains A3 and S32 promoted the growth of Brassicajuncea under chromium stress conditions [ 12]. Furthermore, the bacterial strain Kluyveraascorbata SUD165 protected canola seedlings from nickel toxicity [ 65]. The “IST” elicitedby these bacterial strains against heavy metal stress was associated with ACC deaminaseactivity and production of siderophores and auxins. Above all, these inoculants may beuseful in phytoremediation. Regardless of the precise mechanisms bacteria use against en-vironmental stresses, there is a possibility that plant-growth-promoting bacteria may adaptplants to these environmental stresses. This will help stabilize and revegetate abandonedlands due to abiotic stress, resulting in a concomitant increase in food production.2.3. Differences in the Mechanisms of Overcoming Stress by Plants under the Inﬂuence ofRhizospheric and Endophytic MicroorganismsMicroorganisms employ biochemical and molecular mechanisms through the interac-tion of plants and microorganisms that assist in modifying the negative effect of abioticstresses on the growth of plants [ 66]. Phytohormones such as auxins, cytokinins, andgibberellins carry out a special function in changing the morphology of the roots of theplant [ 67], thereby modifying the adaptation of plants and tolerating certain abiotic stressessuch as drought, heavy metal, nutrient deﬁciency, and salinity. The production of hormonessuch as auxins promotes cell elongation in plants root, as well as the growth of lateral rootsthat contribute a positive effect to the assimilation of nutrients and water acquisition by theplants. The negative effects of abiotic stress were mitigated by PGPR by induced systemictolerance (IST), which includes the following: (i) production of phytohormones such asAuxins, abscisic acid (ABA), and cytokinins; (ii) secretion of various antioxidants such as(Superoxide dismutase) SOD, peroxidase (POD), APX that catalyzes the transformationMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 8 of 20of H 2O2into H 2O, catalase (CAT) enzyme that improve the growth of plants, glutathionereductase (GR) that converts oxidized glutathione (GSSG) into reduced glutathione (GSH)through the ascorbate–glutathione cycle; and (iii) degradation of the ethylene precursorACC by bacterial ACC deaminase [ 68]. Misra and Chauhan [ 69] reported how plants wereinoculated with PGPR containing the ACC deaminase enzyme that has the potential ofmitigating abiotic stresses by controlling the production of ethylene through metaboliz-ing ACC into alpha-ketobutyrate and ammonia. Microorganisms have the potential toimprove plant growth under abiotic stress conditions by promoting the production oflow-molecular-weight osmolytes, such as glycinebetaine, proline, and other amino acids,mineral phosphate solubilization, nitrogen ﬁxation, organic acids, and producing key en-zymes such as ACC-deaminase, chitinase and glucanase [ 70]. These microorganisms arealso involved in the promotion of tolerance of heavy metals by transporting them acrossthe cell membrane, accumulation on cell walls (intra and extracellular), redox reactions,and production of complexes [71].Endophytes involve a symbiotic association within the plant and possess the potentialto inhabit the internal tissues of the plant through the leaf, root, seed, and stem of a hostplant. They are also involved in nitrogen ﬁxation, phytohormones secretion, and acquisitionof nutrients, thereby improving the growth of the plant. Root exudates are known to beproduced by plants that act as the source of energy for endophytic microbes associated withthem [ 72]. While endophytic organisms were colonizing the plants at an early stage, there isthe production of exopolysaccharides (EPS) from bacterial cells that alleviate its attachmentto the surface of the root and likewise prevent bacterial cells from oxidative damage [ 73].Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are well-reported fungi that promote nutrient assimilation inplants and tolerate a lot of conditions of abiotic stress [ 74]. The AMF activates a mutualisticrelationship with its host plant, controlling the growth of crop plants. The network ofmycelial of AMF widens below the roots of the crop plant, therefore improving nutritiousassimilation. The common mycorrhizal network (CMN) has an intense consequence on thefungal-mediated transport of nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) to plants, and thereby aidsthe growth of plants under stressful environmental conditions [75].2.4. Pesticides Stress on Crop PlantsThe effect of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon ﬂuoranthene has the effect of organicpollutant stress on the growth of seeds and roots of Zea mays and Pisum sativum . Thegermination of the seed was suppressed in maize and pea [ 76]. Pesticides can negativelyaffect cellular metabolism when there is an increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS)levels, biochemistry, and the physiological machinery of plants [ 77]. Hatamleh, et al. [ 77]reported how various pesticides including diazinon (DIZN), imidacloprid (IMID), andmancozeb (MNZB) have been applied to tomato plants. The greater doses of pesticidesapplied increase ROS levels and stimulate the damage of membrane by stimulation ofthiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), thereby increasing cell injury. To avoidpesticide-induced oxidative stress, plants affected with greater pesticide dosages reveal ahigh level of antioxidant levels. Increased levels of pesticides resulted in modiﬁcations inthe membrane of the mitochondrion and cause the death of cells in the plant roots.3. Fungi in Abiotic Stress Tolerance3.1. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi in Alleviation of Abiotic StressIn addition to bacterial involvement in stress tolerance, fungi have also been implicatedin adapting plants to various habitats, including those that are affected by abiotic stressessuch as salinity, chilling, drought, heat, toxic metals, and ﬂooding [ 78]. Two types offungi are involved in stress tolerance, these include arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) andectomycorrhiza (EM) fungi. AM live inside the host plant without causing any harm andhave been reported to evoke various stress tolerances. Poveda, et al. [ 79] showed thatabiotic stress tolerance could be induced by exploiting the abundant endophytic arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi, which exist in reciprocally beneﬁcial relationships with about 80%Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 9 of 20of plants. Endophytes that confer tolerance are further divided into Class 1 and Class2 [74]. Class 1 endophytic fungi are known to have a narrow range of hosts becausetheir colonization is limited to shoots, stems, and rhizomes. Class 2 endophytes, on theother hand, confer habitat-speciﬁc stress tolerance to monocots and eudicots [ 80]. Thus,they have a broad range of hosts in which they confer habitat adaptation beneﬁts. It hasbeen reported that both endophytes improve tolerance to abiotic stress [ 81]. Endophytesthat have been reported to confer tolerance to abiotic stress include Curvularia protuberata,Fusarium culmorum, Piriformospora indica, Phoma glomerata LWL2, Penicillium sp. LWL3,Paecilomyces formosus LHL10, Neotyphodium lolii, and Trichoderma [82]. These fungi conferstress tolerance by inﬂuencing the nutritional, physiological, and biochemical propertiesof the host plant. These include overproduction of siderophores, reduction in ethylenesynthesis via ACC-deaminase production, enhancement of antioxidant activity, inhibitionof sodium uptake by increasing uptake of electrolytes such as K+, accumulation of proline,and improving root water uptake and enhancing antioxidant capacity [77].It has been documented that AM can promote salt tolerance using various mecha-nisms, which include adjusting the rate of K+/Na+in the plant cell, transfer of ion salts tothe vacuole, production of growth hormones, and improvement of rhizospheric and soilconditions, as well as improvement of photosynthetic efﬁciency or water use efﬁciency [ 83].Moreover, AM ameliorates salt stress effects by increasing sugar and electrolyte concentra-tions, and hence functions as osmoregulators [ 84]. In another study, AM induced toleranceto salt stress by upregulating antioxidant capacity by activating the plant glutathione–ascorbate cycle. AM symbiosis has also been demonstrated to improve the salt resistanceof plants such as maize, clover, tomato, cucumber, and lettuce [84].In drought-stressed plants, AM-induced tolerance has been shown as a commonfeature of abiotic stress tolerance [ 85]. Investigations showed that on Leymus chinensis (C3)and Hemarthria altissima (C4), the production of grasses was modiﬁed intensely by waterstress that increased the biomass of the plant (58%), intrinsic efﬁcacy of water usage (15%),stomatal conductance (38%), photosynthetic rate (63%), and SOD activity (45%), with adecrease in the concentration of malondialdehyde by 32% of Leymus chinensis under mild(30%) and moderate (50%) drought stresses [2,20].It has been shown that in some species of Festuca , infection with Neotyphodeum en-dophytic fungi improved growth and biomass production under drought stress condi-tions [ 82]. Furthermore, the effects of endophytic fungi on the drought tolerance andrecovery of Lolium perenne have also been shown to be beneﬁcial [ 81]. In other plants,endophytes alleviated drought stress by altering physical, nutritional, physiological, andcellular processes [ 86]. These include the improvement of germination and water uptake(via aquaporins), reducing transpiration (overproduction of abscisic acid leading to stom-atal closure), improvement of plants’ resistance to drought, accumulation of proline, andimproving antioxidant activities by reducing damage caused by free radicals generatedduring drought [ 25]. Plants whose drought tolerance has been shown to be improved bymycorrhizal inoculation include wheat ( Triticum aestivum ), coriander ( Coriandrum sativumL.), basil ( Ocimum basilicum ), grapes ( Vitis vinifera ), onion ( Allium cepa L.), and sorghum(Sorghum bicolor ) [85].AM has also been reported to boost plant tolerance to temperature ﬂuctuations. Inparticular, AM Glomus mosseae has been shown to alleviate the damage caused by chillingstress on tomato plants ( Lycopersicon esculentum cv Zhongzha105) by reducing membranelipid peroxidation, while increasing the level of photosynthetic pigments, accumulationof osmotic adjustment compounds, and antioxidant enzyme activity [ 87]. In heat-stressedplants, AM confers stress tolerance by increasing the levels of phytohormones to preventpremature plant senescence and enhance the level of secondary metabolites (proline andanthocyanins) [ 88]. In chilling stress, AM has been shown to attenuate membrane lipid per-oxidation and plasma membrane permeability, thereby increasing osmolyte accumulation,activating antioxidant enzymes, and improving photosynthetic activity [89].Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 10 of 20In metal-toxic soils, AM also plays an important role in heavy metal tolerance. Forexample, AM inoculation has been shown to enhance growth in tomato seedlings, canola,maize, and rice grown in heavy-metal-contaminated soils by minimizing the uptake oftoxic metals; enhancing the uptake of essential nutrients from the soil; and the productionof glycoproteins, glomalin, and cell wall chitin, which complexes to heavy metals [ 87].Furthermore, AM improves the performance of heavy-metal-stressed plants by increasingthe activity of antioxidant enzymes and the subsequent accumulation of soluble aminoacids. AM ecotypes, used in the alleviation of heavy metal stress, are those isolated fromsoils contaminated with high concentrations of heavy metals, and they include Glomusmossae, Glomus claroideum, Viola calaminaria, and Aspergillus niger [90].3.2. Ectomycorrhiza in the Alleviation of Abiotic StressWhile most studies have been conducted on the amelioration of abiotic stress byendomycorrhizal fungi AM, there is little information available on ectomycorrhizal involve-ment [ 88]. The reason for this is that endomycorrhizae prevail on most herbaceous andwoody species [ 91]. However, the ability of ectomycorrhizal fungi to alleviate abiotic stresshas been demonstrated. Ectomycorrhizal fungi such as Hebeloma crustuliniforme, Laccariabicolor, and Laccaria laccata have been reported to induce salt tolerance in white spruce(Picea glauca ), jack pine ( Pinus banksiana ), and loblolly pine ( Pinus Teada ), respectively [ 92].Basidiomycetes such as Hebeloma cylindrosporum and Pinus pinaster have also been identiﬁedas one of the ectomycorrhizal fungi that attenuate the detrimental effects of salt stress byincreasing biomass production, water conductance, and limiting the loading of Na+intothe xylem while increasing that of K+[93]. Furthermore, it was shown that inoculation ofsalt-stressed jack pine ( Pinus banksiana ) with ascomycetes Cenococcum geophilum improvedtolerance and helped in the afforestation of abandoned farmlands [92].Ectomycorrhiza has also been implicated in the alleviation of drought stress. It hasbeen hypothesized that ectomycorrhiza improves drought stress effects by enhancingosmotic adjustment, enhancing tissue elasticity, and regulating gene expression [ 94]. Whileit is often assumed that ectomycorrhizal fungi die when soils dry out, studies have shownthat some ectomycorrhizal species persist in dry soils and characteristically confer toleranceto drought stress in plants [ 95]. Boyle and Hellenbrand (1991) showed that when inoculatedwith ectomycorrhizal fungi, jack pine ( Pinus bankisiana ) and black spruce ( Picea mariana )performed better when subjected to water stress. The seedling performance of these plants,when measured via their photosynthetic rate, shoot, and root growth, is better [ 96]. Martinsand colleagues (1996) showed that mycorrhization of the European chestnut ( Casteneasativa ), an economically important forest tree with ectomycorrhizal fungi such as Amanitamuscaria, Laccaria laccata, Piloderma croceum , and Pisolithus tinctorius , increased resistance towater stress [96].Ectomycorrhiza has also been shown to mediate heavy metal stress tolerance. Maand colleagues (2014) showed ectomycorrhiza, Paxillus involutus , enhanced cadmiumtolerance by increasing detoxiﬁcation into vacuoles, thereby improving the nutritionaland carbohydrate status of Populus canescence [97]. The hyphae of ectomycorrhizal fungus,Suillus bovinus , are responsible for the accumulation of heavy metals such as zinc, whichcould either be deposited in the fungal cell wall or sequestered into the vacuole of thefungi [98].Ectomycorrhiza has also imparted beneﬁcial protection to plants exposed to low tem-peratures. Landhausser and coworkers (2002) showed that the ectomycorrhizal inoculationof aspen ( Populus tremuloides ) and white spruce ( Picea glauca ) seedlings at low soil tempera-tures of 4C and 8C improved tolerance [98]. Under heat stress conditions of temperateand boreal forests, ectomycorrhiza increased the performance of the cork oak tree ( Populustinctorius ) by increasing leaf area, nitrogen acquisition, photosynthesis capacity, and water-use efﬁciency. Ectomycorrhizal fungi that induce protection against heat stress includeLacarria bicolar and Tuber melanosporum [99].Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 11 of 204. Abiotic Stress Tolerance Induction via the Accumulation of Secondary Metabolitesby MicroorganismsThe ability of microorganisms to protect plants against abiotic stress cannot onlybe attributed to the improvement of primary metabolic activities such as plant growth,nutrient uptake, photosynthesis, and antioxidant production but can also be associated withthe production of secondary metabolites [ 100]. Secondary metabolites (SM) are chemicalcompounds that have no fundamental role in the growth and development of plants butperform speciﬁc functions under a given set of conditions [ 101]. Such functions includetheir involvement as active and potent defense agents against pathogens and herbivorousanimals. Even though secondary metabolites play a vital defense role, they were onceviewed as waste products with little importance in plant growth and development [ 22].Recently, this view has now become irrelevant as many secondary metabolites not onlydefend plants from pathogens and herbivorous organisms but also protect plants fromenvironmental stress [ 102]. A common consequence of environmental stress in plants is theincreased production of ROS, which may cause oxidative stress that is characterized by theperoxidation of proteins, membrane lipids, and nucleic acids [103].It has been reported that inoculation of environmentally stressed plants with microor-ganisms enhances the production of secondary metabolites. These compounds have beenreported to add taste, odor, and color to plants and also play a signiﬁcant role in signaling,defense against herbivore, and infection with fungi, bacteria, or yeast [ 104]. The biologi-cal activities of SM can be explained based on their structural diversity and biosyntheticorigin. Both biotic and abiotic stress conditions are known to hinder plants growth anddevelopment under normal physiological conditions with a concomitant reduction in yield.Therefore, to maintain proper growth and development, as well as be protected againstenvironmental stresses, the upregulation of SM becomes a prominent survival mechanismagainst deleterious conditions such as pathogens attack, heavy metals, extreme tempera-ture, light intensity, salinity, toxic gases, drought, pollutants, and nutrient deﬁciency. Thebiosynthesis of SM plays a very important role in protecting plants against stresses, butmore importantly, inﬂuences plant growth and productivity [78].Several groups of SM have been reported such as alkaloids, terpenes, and phenyl-propanoids. Alkaloids are nitrogen-containing SM with a family of more than 12,000compounds with low molecular weights [ 105]. The biosynthesis of alkaloids was more ob-served when plants are exposed to high-temperature conditions and begins with reactionsinvolving amino acids such as tryptophan, tyrosine, ornithine, and phenylalanine [ 106].The family of alkaloids includes purine alkaloids, pyridine alkaloids, tropane alkaloids,benzylisoquinoline alkaloids, and terpenoid indole alkaloids, which account for about3000 compounds [107]. The synthesis of terpenoid indole alkaloids requires tryptophan,which is known to improve plant growth and development, as well as protect plantsagainst virus, bacteria, and fungi infestations [ 108]. Alkaloid compounds from microbialendophytes are known to possess antiviral, antifungal, antibacterial, and insecticidal prop-erties [ 109]. Furthermore, pyridine alkaloids from Nicotiana spp. were reported to have arepellent effect on pollinators and reduce larval survival of honey bees at high concentra-tions [ 110]; these alkaloids and some other compounds provide plant protection againstinsect herbivores. Purine alkaloids in Coffea spp. and Citrus spp. have been shown toenhance food odor, recruit caffeinated food sources, and increase pollination of caffeinatedﬂowers [111].Natural compounds regarded as the largest group are terpenes that are synthesizedby terpene synthases. About 40,000 structures of natural products from terpenes have beenreported, including triterpenes, diterpenes, monoterpenes, hemiterpenes, and sesquiter-penes, and more compounds are still under study for their bioactivity [ 112]. This groupof natural compounds is biosynthesized via the methylerythritol phosphate (EMP) andmevalonate pathways [ 113]. Terpenes play several important roles in plants, and theseinclude their role as signaling molecules for the attraction of insects during pollination andplants’ defense against both abiotic and biotic stress [ 114]. The isopentenyl diphosphateMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 12 of 20from the MVA pathway leads to the synthesis of sterols, brassinosteroids, sesquiterpenes,and polyphenols, while the MEP pathway involves the synthesis of phytol, diterpenes, to-copherol, and phytohormones (abscisic acid and gibberellins) [ 115]. The biosynthesis of theterpenes provides signal molecule compounds with roles in plant defense against abioticstress [ 116]. Plant terpenes are responsible for deterring herbivores and attracting insectsduring pollination by producing a strong odor. More so, PGPR is well characterized forplant protection; the induction of terpenes in plants by PGPR can be beneﬁcial to improveyield and growth in crops [ 117]. For example, the yield in apple, tomato, and pepper wasincreased by the use of strains from Bacillus and Pseudomonas [118].Phenylpropanoids are natural phenolic compounds with a biosynthesis pathway thatinvolves important secondary metabolites such as anthocyanins, ﬂavones, stilbene, tannins,lignin, ﬂavonoids, and phenolic volatiles, which are synthesized for plant defense againstvarious biotic and abiotic stresses [ 119]. The metabolic pathway of phenylpropanoids iscatalyzed by the enzyme chalcone synthase (CHS), which is involved in the synthesis ofdifferent ﬂavonoids by the condensation of malonyl-CoA and p-coumarl-CoA. Phenyl-propanoids emitted by microorganisms trigger redox reaction in soils and inﬂuence en-zymatic activity and also lead to the availability of phytonutrients and hormonal balance.Furthermore, the phenylpropanoid pathway accumulates lignin, which plays a crucial rolein thickening lignin layers in plants’ cell walls using reinforced defense structures. Theproduction of ﬂavonoid metabolites plays an important role in plants, such as protectingthe plant against heat, UV light, herbivore attack, and pathogen attack [ 120]. Three criticalenzymes in the phenylpropanoid pathway, namely: 4-coumarate-CoA ligase (4CL), Pheny-lalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL), and cinnamate-4-hydroxylase (C4H), are also enzymes thatcatalyze phenolic synthesis [ 121]. Phenolics help produce a number of compounds thathelp plants recognize potential pathogens, inhibit certain enzymes, attract pollinators, repelherbivores, eliminate competition between two plants, and absorb UV light [ 122]. A largenumber of phenolic compounds are found in the bark of conifers where they function asantifungal agents halting the growth of invading organisms by inhibiting their hydrolyticenzymes to reduce their nutritional value for the invading organism [ 123]. Polyphenoliccompounds convey antioxidant activities, and during an attack, are converted to solublephenolic compounds to add to the defense mechanism [ 122]. The decrease in the productionof phenolics and other compounds from plants during biotic and abiotic stresses leads tothe use of microorganisms. Microorganisms in different root locations break down phenoliccompounds for the mineralization of soil nitrogen [124]. In the rhizosphere, the phenolicsmove through and bind to soil matter and are metabolized by the bacterial ﬂora of the soil.The metabolized phenolics then provide an active site, soil porosity, and bioavailabilityof elements such as copper, iron, boron, zinc, manganese, molybdenum, potassium, andmagnesium for plant roots [125].It was shown that inoculation of cadmium-stressed tree plants with mycorrhiza wasfollowed by increased secondary metabolites such as phenolics, 3-4 dihydroxybenzoicacid, p-coumaric acid, and ferulic acid [ 126]. Yasmin, et al. [ 127] showed that inoculatingsoybean ( Glycine max ) plants with plant-associated bacteria increased phenolic contentand alleviated heavy metal stress. Some of the secondary metabolites used by microbes toscavenge harmful ROS and alleviate abiotic stress include ﬂavonoids and lignin precursors,phytoalexins, phenylpropanoids, and carotenoids [ 102]. Microbial-induced secondarymetabolites have also been implicated in frost hardiness, drought resistance, heat acclima-tion, and freezing tolerance in plants [ 17]. Secondary metabolites do not only scavengeROS, but they also stimulate chemo-attraction of Rhizobia and fungi towards roots so as toestablish symbiosis [ 128]. In support of this view, Sebastiana and colleagues (2014) showedthat root colonization with fungi upregulated genes involved in secondary metabolitesbiosynthesis that provided a means of increasing contact sites and niches for hosting thecolonizing hyphae [ 129]. Figure 2 depicts a proposed model of PGPR and AM againstabiotic stress in plants:Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 13 of 20The release of phytohormones such as ethylene (ET), auxin, abscisic acid, cytokinin(CKs), and gibberellins (GAs) is known to contribute to plant growth and nutrient availabil-ity [130]. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) phytohormone, commonly known as auxin, is a keyregulator of plant growth and development. Auxin regulates many biological processessuch as embryogenesis, vascular tissue differentiation, fruit development, apical dominance,developing seeds, ethylene production, lateral root development, sex expression, and ionﬂuxes [ 131]. Ethylene (ET), a gaseous hormone produced from 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), also elicits several functions such as germination stimulation, leafand ﬂower senescence, fruit maturation, adaptation to stress conditions, and resistance topathogen infection [ 132]. The production of ET is tissue-speciﬁc, and its level increasesduring biotic and abiotic stress and plays a role in response to herbivores insects andnecrotrophic pathogens [ 133]. Gibberellins (GAs) are classic plant hormones that belongto the tetracyclic diterpenoid family and play a signiﬁcant role in germination, promotingﬂowering, stimulating plant elongation, pollen development, and release of seed dor-mancy [ 134]. Bacterial endophyte-producing GAs are important in improving seed growthand plant physiology. The Bacillus amyloliquefaciens RWL-1 emit GAs in seed-borne Oryzasativa to regulate its endogenous phytohormones. The secreted GAs from RWL-1 colonizerice roots and improve plant growth, which shows that isolated RWL-1 could be used asmicrobial base fertilizer to enhance crop production [135].5. Release of Volatiles and Cadaverine Compounds by Microorganisms to MitigateAbiotic StressMicroorganisms from plant roots are versatile in solubilizing, mobilizing, and trans-forming nutrients when compared with soil-producing bulk [ 8]. Microorganisms secretevolatile organic compounds (VOCs) that have a beneﬁcial effect on plant growth anddevelopment [ 136]. VOCs occur in lipophilic nature as a complex mixture with low molec-ular weight (<300 g mol 1), high vapor pressure, and low boiling point. The lipophiliccompounds modulate physiological processes and travel through the porous soil, liquid,and air [ 137]. Studies involving the role of microbial VOCs on plant growth are well-documented [ 22]. The ﬁrst such study was initiated in 2003, whereby Ryu and colleaguesreported a 5-fold increase in the A. thaliana leaf area due to volatiles released by B. subtilisGB03 after 10 days of exposure [ 2]. Emitted volatile compounds by bacterial species fromSerratia, Pandoraea, Chromobacterium, and Burkholderia genera have been shown to increasethe biomass ( 125–620%) of A. thaliana [138].Microorganisms produce diverse volatile metabolites, but the most emitted volatilecompounds are propanoic acid, 5-hydroxy-methyl-furfural, butanoic acid, geosmin, cam-phene, -caryophyllene, camphor, acetaldehyde, furfural, 2-methylisoborneol, -pinene,and methanol [ 139]; 2-heptanol, 2-undecanone, 4-heptanone, 2-pentadecanone, 2-pentanone,and 2- tridecanone are commonly known microbial VOCs [ 135], while sodorifen, a bicyclicoligomethyl octadiene is a well-known compound produced by Serratia odorifera [140]. Twoother bioactive compounds are ammonia and dimethyl disulﬁde (DMDS). The DMDSemitted by Bacillus cereus strain has shown to protect corn (Zeamays) and tobacco ( Nicotianatabacum ) plants against Cochliobolus heterostrophus and Botrytiscinereae , respectively [ 141].The Cladosporium sp. and Ampelomyces spp. emit major active volatile compounds (methyl-benzoate and m-Cresol) in fungal species, which provides ISR defense in Arabidopsis againstthe pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000 [142].Polyamines (PAs) are organic polycations that promote plants’ productivity, fruitripening, and ﬂowering, as well as play a signiﬁcant part in the management of plantstresses [ 143]. In plants, cadaverine (Cad), putrescine (Put), spermine (Spm), and spermi-dine (Spd) are major forms of polyamines that contribute to plant growth and development,and enhanced abiotic stress tolerance to various environmental stresses [ 144]. Cadaver-ine is a diamine produced through several biochemical pathways and uses lysine as themain precursor, which is decarboxylated by the enzyme lysine decarboxylase (LDC) [ 145].Cadaverine, previously known as the decomposed lysine organic matter found in theMicroorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 14 of 20environment, has been found to contribute to healthy crop production by maintaining plantgrowth and development, stress response, cell signaling, and insect defense [ 146]. Severalplants such as rice, barley, wheat, oat, maize, sorghum, and legumes have been shown toproduce cadaverine [ 147]. It is important to note that about 240 different bacteria-species-producing cadaverine have been isolated from spinach leaves [ 148]. Ali and Khan [ 13]reported that cadaverine produced from A. brasilense Az39 increased root growth andosmotic intolerance in rice seedlings. Several bacteria have been shown to produce ca-daverine, which plays a role in oxidative stress, insect defense, the stress response to salt,drought, and heat stressors [ 148]. Haneburger et al. reported the role of cadaverine pro-duced by Escherichia coli in acid stress mediation [ 149]. Spermidine and putrescine havebeen reported to produce -Aminobutyric acid (GABA) under stress conditions. GABAis nonprotein amino acids conserved in plants for stress responses; its metabolism waspostulated to play a role in maintaining carbon/nitrogen, redox regulation, herbivoredeterrence, energy production, and pH regulation [ 150]. The protective role of polyamineshas been detected in pigeon pea ( Cajanus cajan ) and mung bean ( Vigna radiata ) during high-temperature stress, whereby Put and Spm enhanced plant protection by scavenging ROSduring drought stress, thus improving leaf and root growth, photosynthesis transpiration,and reproductive development [151].6. ConclusionsAs the need to feed a growing population increases, along with the chronic demand forglobal food security, environmental stressors continue to decrease crop production. Thesestresses have not only decreased crop production but have also caused huge economiclosses in the agricultural sector worldwide. To address these effects, strategies rangingfrom the molecular level, with the isolation and transfer of tolerant genes to improve cropgrowth to the whole-plant level with conventional breeding, have been developed. Withchallenges in these approaches, a simple low-cost approach of using microorganisms hasbeen viewed as a promising broad-spectrum means of producing the much-needed food.These microbes have not only improved the growth of stressed plants but have also offeredprotection against oxidative stress using secondary metabolites. A huge number of potentialmicroorganisms have now been commercialized for use against abiotic stress. Since nitrogenis a source of nutrients for plants, most commercialized microbial fertilizers are productsof nitrogen-ﬁxing organisms such as Azospirillum spp., Azotobacter spp., Actinorhizobiumspp., and Rhizobium spp. This has been attributed to their ease of handling and endospore-forming ability that facilitates efﬁcient colonization. An understanding of the mechanismsused by microorganisms against abiotic stress (see Figure 2) may provide new avenues toincrease yield beyond conventional breeding and biotechnology.Author Contributions: A.P .K. had the idea for the article and suggested the review topic; N.A.K. andO.O.B. critiqued the literature and revamped the ﬁrst draft; A.A.A., O.O.B. and A.P .K. signiﬁcantlyimproved the organization of the various revisions of the work from a technical and philosophicalstandpoint. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: The National Research Foundation of South Africa grant (UID132595) to O.O.B.Acknowledgments: Research reported in this article was supported by the South African NationalResearch Foundation (NRF) through a Doctoral Student Bursary received by N.A.K. More so, thesupport of the University of Zululand Research Committee to N.A.K. is greatly acknowledged. Wealso acknowledge the National Research Foundation, South Africa grants (UID132595) that supportresearch in our laboratory. A.P .K is thankful to the University of Johannesburg Research Committeefor research support.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Silva, J.V .; Giller, K.E. Grand challenges for the 21st century: What crop models can and can’t (yet) do. J. Agric. Sci. 2020 ,158, 794–805. [CrossRef]Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 15 of 202. Ojuederie, O.; Olanrewaju, O.; Babalola, O. Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacterial Mitigation of Drought Stress in Crop Plants:Implications for Sustainable Agriculture. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 712. [CrossRef]3. Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O.; Santoyo, G.; Perazzolli, M. The Potential Role of Microbial Biostimulants in the Amelioration ofClimate Change-Associated Abiotic Stresses on Crops. Front. Microbiol. 2022 ,12, 829099. [CrossRef] [PubMed]4. Zhao, L.; Lu, L.; Wang, A.; Zhang, H.; Huang, M.; Wu, H.; Xing, B.; Wang, Z.; Ji, R. Nano-Biotechnology in Agriculture: Use ofNanomaterials to Promote Plant Growth and Stress Tolerance. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2020 ,68, 1935–1947. [CrossRef] [PubMed]5. Ferreira, C.M.H.; Soares, H.M.V .M.; Soares, E.V . Promising bacterial genera for agricultural practices: An insight on plantgrowth-promoting properties and microbial safety aspects. Sci. Total Environ. 2019 ,682, 779–799. [CrossRef]6. Kassam, A.; Friedrich, T.; Derpsch, R. Global spread of Conservation Agriculture. Int. J. Environ. Stud. 2019 ,76, 29–51. [CrossRef]7. Adeniji, A.A.; Aremu, O.S.; Babalola, O.O. Selecting lipopeptide-producing, Fusarium -suppressing Bacillus spp.: Metabolomicand genomic probing of Bacillus velezensis NWUMFkBS10.5. MicrobiologyOpen 2019 ,8, e00742. [CrossRef]8. Omotayo, O.P .; Babalola, O.O. Resident rhizosphere microbiome’s ecological dynamics and conservation: Towards achieving theenvisioned Sustainable Development Goals, a review. Int. Soil Water Conserv. Res. 2021 ,9, 127–142. [CrossRef]9. Igiehon, N.O.; Babalola, O.O.; Aremu, B.R. Genomic insights into plant growth promoting rhizobia capable of enhancing soybeangermination under drought stress. BMC Microbiol. 2019 ,19, 159. [CrossRef]10. Igiehon, N.O.; Babalola, O.O.; Cheseto, X.; Torto, B. Effects of rhizobia and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on yield, size distributionand fatty acid of soybean seeds grown under drought stress. Microbiol. Res. 2021 ,242, 126640. [CrossRef]11. Kushwaha, P .; Kashyap, P .L.; Bhardwaj, A.K.; Kuppusamy, P .; Srivastava, A.K.; Tiwari, R.K. Bacterial endophyte mediated planttolerance to salinity: Growth responses and mechanisms of action. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2020 ,36, 26. [CrossRef] [PubMed]12. Kumar, A.; Tripti; Maleva, M.; Bruno, L.B.; Rajkumar, M. Synergistic effect of ACC deaminase producing Pseudomonas sp. TR15aand siderophore producing Bacillus aerophilus TR15c for enhanced growth and copper accumulation in Helianthus annuus L.Chemosphere 2021 ,276, 130038. [CrossRef] [PubMed]13. Ali, S.; Khan, N. Delineation of mechanistic approaches employed by plant growth promoting microorganisms for improvingdrought stress tolerance in plants. Microbiol. Res. 2021 ,249, 126771. [CrossRef] [PubMed]14. Vaishnav, A.; Shukla, A.K.; Sharma, A.; Kumar, R.; Choudhary, D.K. Endophytic Bacteria in Plant Salt Stress Tolerance: Currentand Future Prospects. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2019 ,38, 650–668. [CrossRef]15. Orozco-Mosqueda, M.d.C.; Glick, B.R.; Santoyo, G. ACC deaminase in plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB): An efﬁcientmechanism to counter salt stress in crops. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,235, 126439. [CrossRef]16. Trivedi, P .; Leach, J.E.; Tringe, S.G.; Sa, T.; Singh, B.K. Plant–microbiome interactions: From community assembly to plant health.Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2020 ,18, 607–621. [CrossRef] [PubMed]17. Kaushal, M. Microbes in Cahoots with Plants: MIST to Hit the Jackpot of Agricultural Productivity during Drought. Int. J. Mol.Sci.2019 ,20, 1769. [CrossRef]18. Zhang, F.; Zou, Y.-N.; Wu, Q.-S.; Kuˇ ca, K. Arbuscular mycorrhizas modulate root polyamine metabolism to enhance droughttolerance of trifoliate orange. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,171, 103926. [CrossRef]19. Hasanuzzaman, M.; Parvin, K.; Bardhan, K.; Nahar, K.; Anee, T.I.; Masud, A.A.C.; Fotopoulos, V . Biostimulants for the Regulationof Reactive Oxygen Species Metabolism in Plants under Abiotic Stress. Cells 2021 ,10, 2537. [CrossRef]20. Li, J.; Meng, B.; Chai, H.; Yang, X.; Song, W.; Li, S.; Lu, A.; Zhang, T.; Sun, W. Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi AlleviateDrought Stress in C3 ( Leymus chinensis ) and C4 ( Hemarthria altissima) Grasses via Altering Antioxidant Enzyme Activities andPhotosynthesis. Frontiers in Plant Science 2019 ,10, 499. [CrossRef] [PubMed]21. Adedeji, A.A.; Babalola, O.O. Secondary metabolites as plant defensive strategy: A large role for small molecules in the near rootregion. Planta 2020 ,252, 61. [CrossRef] [PubMed]22. Kaur, S.; Suseela, V . Unraveling Arbuscular Mycorrhiza-Induced Changes in Plant Primary and Secondary Metabolome. Metabo-lites 2020 ,10, 335. [CrossRef] [PubMed]23. Mohammadi, M.A.; Cheng, Y.; Aslam, M.; Jakada, B.H.; Wai, M.H.; Ye, K.; He, X.; Luo, T.; Ye, L.; Dong, C.; et al. ROS andOxidative Response Systems in Plants Under Biotic and Abiotic Stresses: Revisiting the Crucial Role of Phosphite TriggeredPlants Defense Response. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 631318. [CrossRef]24. Chukwuneme, C.F.; Uzoh, I.M.; Kutu, F.R.; Babalola, O.O. Food Sustainability Enhancement: Plant Growth-Promoting Bacteria asKey Players in the Alleviation of Drought Stress in Plants. In Food Security and Safety: African Perspectives ; Babalola, O.O., Ed.;Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2021; pp. 593–610.25. Chukwuneme, C.F.; Ayangbenro, A.S.; Babalola, O.O. Impacts of land-use and management histories of maize ﬁelds on thestructure, composition, and metabolic potentials of microbial communities. Curr. Plant Biol. 2021 ,28, 100228. [CrossRef]26. Kour, D.; Rana, K.L.; Sheikh, I.; Kumar, V .; Yadav, A.N.; Dhaliwal, H.S.; Saxena, A.K. Alleviation of Drought Stress and PlantGrowth Promotion by Pseudomonas libanensis EU-LWNA-33, a Drought-Adaptive Phosphorus-Solubilizing Bacterium. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. India Sect. B Biol. Sci. 2020 ,90, 785–795. [CrossRef]27. Morcillo, R.; Manzanera, M. The Effects of Plant-Associated Bacterial Exopolysaccharides on Plant Abiotic Stress Tolerance.Metabolites 2021 ,11, 337. [CrossRef] [PubMed]28. Igiehon, O.N.; Babalola, O.O. Rhizobium and Mycorrhizal Fungal Species Improved Soybean Yield Under Drought StressConditions. Curr. Microbiol. 2021 ,78, 1615–1627. [CrossRef]Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 16 of 2029. Pathak, H.; Kumar, M.; Molla, K.A.; Chakraborty, K. Abiotic stresses in rice production: Impacts and management. Oryza 2021 ,58, 103–125. [CrossRef]30. Cai, Z.; Wang, X.; Bhadra, S.; Gao, Q. Distinct factors drive the assembly of quinoa-associated microbiomes along elevation. PlantSoil2020 ,448, 55–69. [CrossRef]31. Reynaert, S.; De Boeck, H.J.; Verbruggen, E.; Verlinden, M.; Flowers, N.; Nijs, I. Risk of short-term biodiversity loss under morepersistent precipitation regimes. Glob. Change Biol. 2021 ,27, 1614–1626. [CrossRef]32. Abdul Rahman, N.S.N.; Abdul Hamid, N.W.; Nadarajah, K. Effects of Abiotic Stress on Soil Microbiome. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 9036. [CrossRef]33. Ma, X.; Su, Z.; Ma, H. Molecular genetic analyses of abiotic stress responses during plant reproductive development. J. Exp. Bot.2020 ,71, 2870–2885. [CrossRef]34. Brito, C.; Dinis, L.-T.; Moutinho, P .; Correia, C.M. Drought Stress Effects and Olive Tree Acclimation under a Changing Climate.Plants 2019 ,8, 232. [CrossRef] [PubMed]35. Ross, F.; Di Matteo, J.; Cerrudo, A. Maize proliﬁcacy: A source of reproductive plasticity that contributes to yield stability whenplant population varies in drought-prone environments. Field Crops Res. 2020 ,247, 107699. [CrossRef]36. Bloomﬁeld, J.P .; Marchant, B.P .; McKenzie, A.A. Changes in groundwater drought associated with anthropogenic warming.Hydrol. Earth Syst. Sci. 2019 ,23, 1393–1408. [CrossRef]37. Singh, C.; Wang-Erlandsson, L.; Fetzer, I.; Rockström, J.; Van Der Ent, R. Rootzone storage capacity reveals drought copingstrategies along rainforest-savanna transitions. Environ. Res. Lett. 2020 ,15, 124021. [CrossRef]38. Zhang, Y.; Ding, J.; Wang, H.; Su, L.; Zhao, C. Biochar addition alleviate the negative effects of drought and salinity stress onsoybean productivity and water use efﬁciency. BMC Plant Biol. 2020 ,20, 288. [CrossRef] [PubMed]39. Cernusak, L.A. Gas exchange and water use efﬁciency in plant canopies. Plant Biol. 2020 ,22, 52–67. [CrossRef]40. Coutinho, F.S.; Rodrigues, J.M.; Lima, L.L.; Mesquita, R.O.; Carpinetti, P .A.; Machado, J.P .B.; Vital, C.E.; Vidigal, P .M.; Ramos,M.E.S.; Maximiano, M.R.; et al. Remodeling of the cell wall as a drought-tolerance mechanism of a soybean genotype revealed byglobal gene expression analysis. aBIOTECH 2021 ,2, 14–31. [CrossRef]41. Yang, X.; Lu, M.; Wang, Y.; Wang, Y.; Liu, Z.; Chen, S. Response Mechanism of Plants to Drought Stress. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 50.[CrossRef]42. Ito, F.; Sono, Y.; Ito, T. Measurement and clinical signiﬁcance of lipid peroxidation as a biomarker of oxidative stress: Oxidativestress in diabetes, atherosclerosis, and chronic inﬂammation. Antioxidants 2019 ,8, 72. [CrossRef] [PubMed]43. Ameh, T.; Sayes, C.M. The potential exposure and hazards of copper nanoparticles: A review. Environ. Toxicol. Pharmacol. 2019 ,71, 103220. [CrossRef] [PubMed]44. Ketehouli, T.; Idrice Carther, K.F.; Noman, M.; Wang, F.-W.; Li, X.-W.; Li, H.-Y. Adaptation of Plants to Salt Stress: Characterizationof Na+ and K+ Transporters and Role of CBL Gene Family in Regulating Salt Stress Response. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 687. [CrossRef]45. Imran, M.; Shazad, R.; Bilal, S.; Imran, Q.M.; Khan, M.; Kang, S.-M.; Khan, A.L.; Yun, B.-W.; Lee, I.-J. Exogenous Melatoninmediates the regulation of endogenous nitric oxide in Glycine max L. to reduce effects of drought stress. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,188, 104511. [CrossRef]46. Nazli, F.; Najm-ul-Seher; Khan, M.Y.; Jamil, M.; Nadeem, S.M.; Ahmad, M. Soil Microbes and Plant Health. In Plant DiseaseManagement Strategies for Sustainable Agriculture through Traditional and Modern Approaches ; Ul Haq, I., Ijaz, S., Eds.; SpringerInternational Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 111–135.47. Rai, G.K.; Bhat, B.A.; Mushtaq, M.; Tariq, L.; Rai, P .K.; Basu, U.; Dar, A.A.; Islam, S.T.; Dar, T.U.H.; Bhat, J.A. Insights intodecontamination of soils by phytoremediation: A detailed account on heavy metal toxicity and mitigation strategies. Physiol.Plant. 2021 ,173, 287–304. [CrossRef]48. Rahman, Z.; Singh, V .P . The relative impact of toxic heavy metals (THMs) (arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), chromium (Cr)(VI),mercury (Hg), and lead (Pb)) on the total environment: An overview. Environ. Monit. Assess. 2019 ,191, 419. [CrossRef]49. Dumanovi´ c, J.; Nepovimova, E.; Nati´ c, M.; Kuˇ ca, K.; Ja´ cevi´ c, V . The Signiﬁcance of Reactive Oxygen Species and AntioxidantDefense System in Plants: A Concise Overview. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,11, 552969. [CrossRef]50. Vu, L.D.; Gevaert, K.; De Smet, I. Feeling the Heat: Searching for Plant Thermosensors. Trends Plant Sci. 2019 ,24, 210–219.[CrossRef]51. Balliu, A.; Zheng, Y.; Sallaku, G.; Fern ández, J.A.; Gruda, N.S.; Tuzel, Y. Environmental and Cultivation Factors Affect theMorphology, Architecture and Performance of Root Systems in Soilless Grown Plants. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 243. [CrossRef]52. Ljubej, V .; Karalija, E.; Salopek-Sondi, B.; Šamec, D. Effects of Short-Term Exposure to Low Temperatures on Proline, Pigments,and Phytochemicals Level in Kale ( Brassica oleracea var. acephala ).Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 341. [CrossRef]53. Diamond, S.; Andeer, P .F.; Li, Z.; Crits-Christoph, A.; Burstein, D.; Anantharaman, K.; Lane, K.R.; Thomas, B.C.; Pan, C.; Northen,T.R.; et al. Mediterranean grassland soil C–N compound turnover is dependent on rainfall and depth, and is mediated bygenomically divergent microorganisms. Nat. Microbiol. 2019 ,4, 1356–1367. [CrossRef] [PubMed]54. Carlson, R.; Tugizimana, F.; Steenkamp, P .A.; Dubery, I.A.; Hassen, A.I.; Labuschagne, N. Rhizobacteria-induced systemictolerance against drought stress in Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,232, 126388. [CrossRef] [PubMed]55. Juri´ c, S.; Sopko Stracenski, K.; Kr ól-Kili´ nska, ˙Z.; Žuti´ c, I.; Uher, S.F.; Ðermi´ c, E.; Topolovec-Pintari´ c, S.; Vincekovi´ c, M. Theenhancement of plant secondary metabolites content in Lactuca sativa L. by encapsulated bioactive agents. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 3737.[CrossRef] [PubMed]Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 17 of 2056. Khan, M.A.; Hamayun, M.; Asaf, S.; Khan, M.; Yun, B.-W.; Kang, S.-M.; Lee, I.-J. Rhizospheric Bacillus spp. Rescues Plant GrowthUnder Salinity Stress via Regulating Gene Expression, Endogenous Hormones, and Antioxidant System of Oryza sativa L.Front.Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 665590. [CrossRef]57. Samaddar, S.; Chatterjee, P .; Roy Choudhury, A.; Ahmed, S.; Sa, T. Interactions between Pseudomonas spp. and their role inimproving the red pepper plant growth under salinity stress. Microbiol. Res. 2019 ,219, 66–73. [CrossRef]58. Gonz ález-Morales, S.; Sol ís-Gaona, S.; Vald és-Caballero, M.V .; Ju árez-Maldonado, A.; Loredo-Treviño, A.; Benavides-Mendoza, A.Transcriptomics of Biostimulation of Plants Under Abiotic Stress. Front. Genet. 2021 ,12, 583888. [CrossRef]59. Kerbab, S.; Silini, A.; Chenari Bouket, A.; Cherif-Silini, H.; Eshelli, M.; El Houda Rabhi, N.; Belbahri, L. Mitigation of NaClStress in Wheat by Rhizosphere Engineering Using Salt Habitat Adapted PGPR Halotolerant Bacteria. Appl. Sci. 2021 ,11, 1034.[CrossRef]60. Keswani, C.; Singh, S.P .; Cueto, L.; Garc ía-Estrada, C.; Mezaache-Aichour, S.; Glare, T.R.; Borriss, R.; Singh, S.P .; Bl ázquez, M.A.;Sansinenea, E. Auxins of microbial origin and their use in agriculture. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2020 ,104, 8549–8565. [CrossRef]61. Yang, A.; Akhtar, S.S.; Fu, Q.; Naveed, M.; Iqbal, S.; Roitsch, T.; Jacobsen, S.-E. Burkholderia phytoﬁrmans PsJN Stimulate Growthand Yield of Quinoa under Salinity Stress. Plants 2020 ,9, 672. [CrossRef]62. Yang, L.; Wen, K.-S.; Ruan, X.; Zhao, Y.-X.; Wei, F.; Wang, Q. Response of Plant Secondary Metabolites to Environmental Factors.Molecules 2018 ,23, 762. [CrossRef]63. Jinal, H.N.; Gopi, K.; Prittesh, P .; Kartik, V .P .; Amaresan, N. Phytoextraction of iron from contaminated soils by inoculationof iron-tolerant plant growth-promoting bacteria in Brassica juncea L. Czern. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2019 ,26, 32815–32823.[CrossRef]64. Asad, S.A.; Farooq, M.; Afzal, A.; West, H. Integrated phytobial heavy metal remediation strategies for a sustainable cleanenvironment—A review. Chemosphere 2019 ,217, 925–941. [CrossRef]65. Chakraborti, S.; Bera, K.; Sadhukhan, S.; Dutta, P . Bio-priming of seeds: Plant stress management and its underlying cellular,biochemical and molecular mechanisms. Plant Stress 2022 ,3, 100052. [CrossRef]66. Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola, O.O.; Prigent-Combaret, C.; Cruz, C.; Stefan, M.; Kutu, F.; Glick, B.R. The application of plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria in Solanum lycopersicum production in the agricultural system: A review. PeerJ 2022 ,10, e13405.[CrossRef]67. Arkhipova, T.; Martynenko, E.; Sharipova, G.; Kuzmina, L.; Ivanov, I.; Garipova, M.; Kudoyarova, G. Effects of Plant GrowthPromoting Rhizobacteria on the Content of Abscisic Acid and Salt Resistance of Wheat Plants. Plants 2020 ,9, 1429. [CrossRef]68. Misra, S.; Chauhan, P .S. ACC deaminase-producing rhizosphere competent Bacillus spp. mitigate salt stress and promote Zeamays growth by modulating ethylene metabolism. 3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 119. [CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Hakim, S.; Mirza, B.S.; Zaheer, A.; McLean, J.E.; Imran, A.; Yasmin, S.; Sajjad Mirza, M. Retrieved 16S rRNA and nifH sequencesreveal co-dominance of Bradyrhizobium and Ensifer (Sinorhizobium ) strains in ﬁeld-collected root nodules of the promiscuous hostVigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,102, 485–497. [CrossRef]70. Nanda, M.; Kumar, V .; Sharma, D.K. Multimetal tolerance mechanisms in bacteria: The resistance strategies acquired by bacteriathat can be exploited to ‘clean-up’ heavy metal contaminants from water. Aquat. Toxicol. 2019 ,212, 1–10. [CrossRef]71. Shen, F.-T.; Yen, J.-H.; Liao, C.-S.; Chen, W.-C.; Chao, Y.-T. Screening of Rice Endophytic Biofertilizers with Fungicide Toleranceand Plant Growth-Promoting Characteristics. Sustainability 2019 ,11, 1133. [CrossRef]72. Sharma, R.K.; Barot, K.; Archana, G. Root colonization by heavy metal resistant Enterobacter and its inﬂuence on metal inducedoxidative stress on Cajanus cajan. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2020 ,100, 1532–1540. [CrossRef] [PubMed]73. Mitra, D.; Djebaili, R.; Pellegrini, M.; Mahakur, B.; Sarker, A.; Chaudhary, P .; Khoshru, B.; Gallo, M.D.; Kitouni, M.; Barik, D.P .;et al. Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: Plant growth improvement and induction of resistance under stressful conditions. J.Plant Nutr. 2021 ,44, 1993–2028. [CrossRef]74. Sun, Z.; Song, J.; Xin, X.a.; Xie, X.; Zhao, B. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal 14-3-3 proteins are involved in arbuscule formationand responses to abiotic stresses during AM symbiosis. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 91. [CrossRef] [PubMed]75. Kummerov á, M.; Zezulka, Š.; V áˇ nová, L.; Fišerov á, H. Effect of organic pollutant treatment on the growth of pea and maizeseedlings. Open Life Sci. 2012 ,7, 159–166. [CrossRef]76. Hatamleh, A.A.; Danish, M.; Al-Dosary, M.A.; El-Zaidy, M.; Ali, S. Physiological and oxidative stress responses of Solanumlycopersicum (L.) (tomato) when exposed to different chemical pesticides. RSC Adv. 2022 ,12, 7237–7252. [CrossRef]77. Diagne, N.; Ngom, M.; Djighaly, P .I.; Fall, D.; Hocher, V .; Svistoonoff, S. Roles of Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi on Plant Growthand Performance: Importance in Biotic and Abiotic Stressed Regulation. Diversity 2020 ,12, 370. [CrossRef]78. Poveda, J.; Abril-Urias, P .; Escobar, C. Biological Control of Plant-Parasitic Nematodes by Filamentous Fungi Inducers ofResistance: Trichoderma , Mycorrhizal and Endophytic Fungi. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 992. [CrossRef]79. Redman, R.S.; Kim, Y.O.; Cho, S.; Mercer, M.; Rienstra, M.; Manglona, R.; Biaggi, T.; Zhou, X.-G.; Chilvers, M.; Gray, Z.; et al. ASymbiotic Approach to Generating Stress Tolerant Crops. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 920. [CrossRef]80. Zhang, Y.; Yu, X.; Zhang, W.; Lang, D.; Zhang, X.; Cui, G.; Zhang, X. Interactions between Endophytes and Plants: BeneﬁcialEffect of Endophytes to Ameliorate Biotic and Abiotic Stresses in Plants. J. Plant Biol. 2019 ,62, 1–13. [CrossRef]81. Abo, N.F. Endophytic fungi for sustainable agriculture. Microb. Biosyst. 2019 ,4, 31–44. [CrossRef]82. Okon, O.; Matrood, A.; Okon, J. Na+exclusion and Na+/K+ratio adjustment by mycorrhiza enhances macro/micro nutrientsuptake in two members of Cucurbitaceae family under salt stress. Int. J. Bot. Stud. 2020 ,5, 108–114.Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 18 of 2083. Sofy, M.R.; Aboseidah, A.A.; Heneidak, S.A.; Ahmed, H.R. ACC deaminase containing endophytic bacteria ameliorate salt stressinPisum sativum through reduced oxidative damage and induction of antioxidative defense systems. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.2021 ,28, 40971–40991. [CrossRef]84. Bahadur, A.; Batool, A.; Nasir, F.; Jiang, S.; Mingsen, Q.; Zhang, Q.; Pan, J.; Liu, Y.; Feng, H. Mechanistic Insights into ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungi-Mediated Drought Stress Tolerance in Plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 4199. [CrossRef]85. Ullah, A.; Nisar, M.; Ali, H.; Hazrat, A.; Hayat, K.; Keerio, A.A.; Ihsan, M.; Laiq, M.; Ullah, S.; Fahad, S.; et al. Drought toleranceimprovement in plants: An endophytic bacterial approach. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2019 ,103, 7385–7397. [CrossRef]86. Chandrasekaran, M.; Boopathi, T.; Manivannan, P . Comprehensive Assessment of Ameliorative Effects of AMF in AlleviatingAbiotic Stress in Tomato Plants. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 303. [CrossRef]87. Sytar, O.; Kumari, P .; Yadav, S.; Brestic, M.; Rastogi, A. Phytohormone Priming: Regulator for Heavy Metal Stress in Plants. J.Plant Growth Regul. 2019 ,38, 739–752. [CrossRef]88. Kapoor, R.T.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Exogenous kinetin and putrescine synergistically mitigate salt stress in Luffa acutangula bymodulating physiology and antioxidant defense. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants 2020 ,26, 2125–2137. [CrossRef]89. Riaz, M.; Kamran, M.; Fang, Y.; Wang, Q.; Cao, H.; Yang, G.; Deng, L.; Wang, Y.; Zhou, Y.; Anastopoulos, I.; et al. Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi-induced mitigation of heavy metal phytotoxicity in metal contaminated soils: A critical review. J. Hazard.Mater. 2021 ,402, 123919. [CrossRef]90. Betekhtina, A.A.; Ganem, A.; Nekrasova, O.A.; Radchenko, T.A.; Uchaev, A.P .; Dergacheva, M.I.; Veselkin, D.V . Factors of Carbonand Nitrogen Contents in the Fine Roots of Plants in the Middle Urals. Russ. J. Ecol. 2021 ,52, 99–108. [CrossRef]91. Usman, M.; Ho-Pl ágaro, T.; Frank, H.E.R.; Calvo-Polanco, M.; Gaillard, I.; Garcia, K.; Zimmermann, S.D. Mycorrhizal Symbiosisfor Better Adaptation of Trees to Abiotic Stress Caused by Climate Change in Temperate and Boreal Forests. Front. For. Glob.Change 2021 ,4, 742392. [CrossRef]92. Garcia, K.; Guerrero-Gal án, C.; Frank, H.E.R.; Haider, M.Z.; Delteil, A.; Con éjéro, G.; Lambilliotte, R.; Fizames, C.; Sentenac, H.;Zimmermann, S.D. Fungal Shaker-like channels beyond cellular K+ homeostasis: A role in ectomycorrhizal symbiosis betweenHebeloma cylindrosporum and Pinus pinaster .PLoS ONE 2020 ,15, e0242739. [CrossRef]93. Wang, Y.; Jiang, D.; Hou, J.; Chen, G. Physiological characterization and thylakoid ultrastructure analysis in super high-yieldhybrid rice leaves under drought stress. Photosynthetica 2019 ,57, 890–896. [CrossRef]94. Etesami, H. Potential advantage of rhizosheath microbiome, in contrast to rhizosphere microbiome, to improve drought tolerancein crops. Rhizosphere 2021 ,20, 100439. [CrossRef]95. Akram, W.; Ahmad, A.; Yasin, N.A.; Anjum, T.; Ali, B.; Fatima, S.; Ahmed, S.; Simirgiotis, M.J.; Li, G. Mechanical strengtheningand metabolic re-modulations are involved in protection against Fusarium wilt of tomato by B. subtilis IAGS174. J. Plant Interact.2021 ,16, 411–421. [CrossRef]96. Szuba, A.; Marczak, Ł.; Kozłowski, R. Pb Stress and Ectomycorrhizas: Strong Protective Proteomic Responses in Poplar RootsInoculated with Paxillus involutus Isolate and Characterized by Low Root Colonization Intensity. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 4300.[CrossRef] [PubMed]97. Domka, A.M.; Rozpa ˛ adek, P .; Turnau, K. Are Fungal Endophytes Merely Mycorrhizal Copycats? The Role of Fungal Endophytesin the Adaptation of Plants to Metal Toxicity. Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10, 371. [CrossRef] [PubMed]98. Zhang, F.; Labourel, A.; Haon, M.; Kemppainen, M.; Da Silva Machado, E.; Brouilly, N.; Veneault-Fourrey, C.; Kohler, A.; Rosso,M.N.; Pardo, A.; et al. The ectomycorrhizal basidiomycete Laccaria bicolor releases a GH28 polygalacturonase that plays a key rolein symbiosis establishment. New Phytol. 2022 ,233, 2534–2547. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Alsanius, B.; Karlsson, M.; Rosberg, A.; Dorais, M.; Naznin, M.; Khalil, S.; Bergstrand, K.-J. Light and Microbial Lifestyle: TheImpact of Light Quality on Plant–Microbe Interactions in Horticultural Production Systems—A Review. Horticulturae 2019 ,5, 41.[CrossRef]100. Yadav, B.; Jogawat, A.; Rahman, M.S.; Narayan, O.P . Secondary metabolites in the drought stress tolerance of crop plants: Areview. Gene Rep. 2021 ,23, 101040. [CrossRef]101. Ahanger, M.A.; Bhat, J.A.; Siddiqui, M.H.; Rinklebe, J.; Ahmad, P . Integration of silicon and secondary metabolites in plants: Asigniﬁcant association in stress tolerance. J. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,71, 6758–6774. [CrossRef]102. Rajpoot, R.; Srivastava, R.K.; Rani, A.; Pandey, P .; Dubey, R.S. Manganese-induced oxidative stress, ultrastructural changes, andproteomics studies in rice plants. Protoplasma 2021 ,258, 319–335. [CrossRef]103. Francis, F.; Jacquemyn, H.; Delvigne, F.; Lievens, B. From Diverse Origins to Speciﬁc Targets: Role of Microorganisms in IndirectPest Biological Control. Insects 2020 ,11, 533. [CrossRef]104. Rajput, A.; Sharma, R.; Bharti, R. Pharmacological activities and toxicities of alkaloids on human health. Mater. Today Proc. 2022 ,48, 1407–1415. [CrossRef]105. Derakhshani, Z.; Bhave, M.; Shah, R.M. Metabolic contribution to salinity stress response in grains of two barley cultivars withcontrasting salt tolerance. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,179, 104229. [CrossRef]106. Zareena, B.; Khadim, A.; Jeelani, S.U.Y.; Hussain, S.; Ali, A.; Musharraf, S.G. High-Throughput Detection of an Alkaloidal PlantMetabolome in Plant Extracts Using LC-ESI-QTOF-MS. J. Proteome Res. 2021 ,20, 3826–3839. [CrossRef]107. Gamalero, E.; Glick, B.R. The Use of Plant Growth-Promoting Bacteria to Prevent Nematode Damage to Plants. Biology 2020 ,9, 381. [CrossRef]Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 19 of 20108. Akhgari, A.; Oksman-Caldentey, K.-M.; Rischer, H. Biotechnology of the medicinal plant Rhazya stricta: A little investigatedmember of the Apocynaceae family. Biotechnol. Lett. 2017 ,39, 829–840. [CrossRef] [PubMed]109. Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O. Elucidating Mechanisms of Endophytes used in Plant Protection and other Bioactivities WithMultifunctional Prospects. Front. Bioeng Biotechnol. 2020 ,8, 467. [CrossRef]110. Schorderet Weber, S.; Kaminski, K.P .; Perret, J.-L.; Leroy, P .; Mazurov, A.; Peitsch, M.C.; Ivanov, N.V .; Hoeng, J. Antiparasiticproperties of leaf extracts derived from selected Nicotiana species and Nicotiana tabacum varieties. Food Chem. Toxicol. 2019 ,132, 110660. [CrossRef]111. Xu, Z.; Pu, X.; Gao, R.; Demurtas, O.C.; Fleck, S.J.; Richter, M.; He, C.; Ji, A.; Sun, W.; Kong, J.; et al. Tandem gene duplicationsdrive divergent evolution of caffeine and crocin biosynthetic pathways in plants. BMC Biol. 2020 ,18, 63. [CrossRef] [PubMed]112. Ninkuu, V .; Zhang, L.; Yan, J.; Fu, Z.; Yang, T.; Zeng, H. Biochemistry of Terpenes and Recent Advances in Plant Protection. Int. J.Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 5710. [CrossRef] [PubMed]113. Nguyen, A.D.; Kim, D.; Lee, E.Y. Unlocking the biosynthesis of sesquiterpenoids from methane via the methylerythritol phosphatepathway in methanotrophic bacteria, using -humulene as a model compound. Metab. Eng. 2020 ,61, 69–78. [CrossRef]114. Boncan, D.A.T.; Tsang, S.S.K.; Li, C.; Lee, I.H.T.; Lam, H.-M.; Chan, T.-F.; Hui, J.H.L. Terpenes and Terpenoids in Plants:Interactions with Environment and Insects. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 7382. [CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Apoorva; Jaiswal, D.; Pandey-Rai, S.; Agrawal, S.B. Untangling the UV-B radiation-induced transcriptional network regulatingplant morphogenesis and secondary metabolite production. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,192, 104655. [CrossRef]116. Jan, R.; Asaf, S.; Numan, M.; Lubna; Kim, K.-M. Plant Secondary Metabolite Biosynthesis and Transcriptional Regulation inResponse to Biotic and Abiotic Stress Conditions. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 968. [CrossRef]117. Ole´ nska, E.; Małek, W.; W ójcik, M.; Swiecicka, I.; Thijs, S.; Vangronsveld, J. Beneﬁcial features of Plant Growth-PromotingRhizobacteria for improving Plant Growth and Health in challenging conditions: A Methodical Review. Sci. Total Environ. 2020 ,743, 140682. [CrossRef] [PubMed]118. Katsenios, N.; Andreou, V .; Sparangis, P .; Djordjevic, N.; Giannoglou, M.; Chanioti, S.; Stergiou, P .; Xanthou, M.-Z.; Kakabouki, I.;Vlachakis, D.; et al. Evaluation of Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria Strains on Growth, Yield and Quality of Industrial Tomato.Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 2099. [CrossRef]119. Zhang, L.; Ahammed, G.J.; Li, X.; Wei, J.-P .; Li, Y.; Yan, P .; Zhang, L.-P .; Han, W.-Y. Exogenous Brassinosteroid Enhances PlantDefense Against Colletotrichum gloeosporioides by Activating Phenylpropanoid Pathway in Camellia sinensis L.J. Plant Growth Regul.2018 ,37, 1235–1243. [CrossRef]120. Li, G.; Zhu, S.; Wu, W.; Zhang, C.; Peng, Y.; Wang, Q.; Shi, J. Exogenous nitric oxide induces disease resistance againstMoniliniafructicolathrough activating the phenylpropanoid pathway in peach fruit. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2017 ,97, 3030–3038. [CrossRef]121. Wei, Y.; Zhou, D.; Peng, J.; Pan, L.; Tu, K. Hot Air Treatment Induces Disease Resistance through Activating the PhenylpropanoidMetabolism in Cherry Tomato Fruit. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2017 ,65, 8003–8010. [CrossRef] [PubMed]122. Marchiosi, R.; dos Santos, W.D.; Constantin, R.P .; de Lima, R.B.; Soares, A.R.; Finger-Teixeira, A.; Mota, T.R.; de Oliveira, D.M.;Foletto-Felipe, M.d.P .; Abrah ão, J.; et al. Biosynthesis and metabolic actions of simple phenolic acids in plants. Phytochem. Rev.2020 ,19, 865–906. [CrossRef]123. Bhardwaj, K.; Silva, A.S.; Atanassova, M.; Sharma, R.; Nepovimova, E.; Musilek, K.; Sharma, R.; Alghuthaymi, M.A.; Dhanjal, D.S.;Nicoletti, M.; et al. Conifers Phytochemicals: A Valuable Forest with Therapeutic Potential. Molecules 2021 ,26, 3005. [CrossRef][PubMed]124. Khosrozadeh, S.; Guber, A.; Kravchenko, A.; Ghaderi, N.; Blagodatskaya, E. Soil oxidoreductase zymography: Visualizing spatialdistributions of peroxidase and phenol oxidase activities at the root-soil interface. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2022 ,167, 108610. [CrossRef]125. Elemike, E.; Uzoh, I.; Onwudiwe, D.; Babalola, O. The Role of Nanotechnology in the Fortiﬁcation of Plant Nutrients andImprovement of Crop Production. Appl. Sci. 2019 ,9, 499. [CrossRef]126. Chen, S.; Lin, R.; Lu, H.; Wang, Q.; Yang, J.; Liu, J.; Yan, C. Effects of phenolic acids on free radical scavenging and heavy metalbioavailability in kandelia obovata under cadmium and zinc stress. Chemosphere 2020 ,249, 126341. [CrossRef] [PubMed]127. Yasmin, H.; Naeem, S.; Bakhtawar, M.; Jabeen, Z.; Nosheen, A.; Naz, R.; Keyani, R.; Mumtaz, S.; Hassan, M.N. Halotolerantrhizobacteria Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes and Bacillus subtilis mediate systemic tolerance in hydroponically grown soybean(Glycine max L.) against salinity stress. PLoS ONE 2020 ,15, e0231348. [CrossRef] [PubMed]128. Phour, M.; Sehrawat, A.; Sindhu, S.S.; Glick, B.R. Interkingdom signaling in plant-rhizomicrobiome interactions for sustainableagriculture. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,241, 126589. [CrossRef]129. Mattoo, A.J.; Nonzom, S. Endophytic fungi: Understanding complex cross-talks. Symbiosis 2021 ,83, 237–264. [CrossRef]130. Kumar, A.; Verma, J.P . Does plant—Microbe interaction confer stress tolerance in plants: A review? Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,207,41–52. [CrossRef]131. Camoni, L.; Visconti, S.; Aducci, P .; Marra, M. 14-3-3 Proteins in Plant Hormone Signaling: Doing Several Things at Once. Front.Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 297. [CrossRef] [PubMed]132. Nazir, F.; Fariduddin, Q.; Khan, T.A. Hydrogen peroxide as a signalling molecule in plants and its crosstalk with other plantgrowth regulators under heavy metal stress. Chemosphere 2020 ,252, 126486. [CrossRef]133. Barnawal, D.; Singh, R.; Singh, R.P . Chapter Six—Role of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria in Drought Tolerance: RegulatingGrowth Hormones and Osmolytes. In PGPR Amelioration in Sustainable Agriculture ; Singh, A.K., Kumar, A., Singh, P .K., Eds.;Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, Cambridge, UK, 2019; pp. 107–128.Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528 20 of 20134. Peres, A.; Soares, J.; Tavares, R.; Righetto, G.; Zullo, M.; Mandava, N.; Menossi, M. Brassinosteroids, the Sixth Class ofPhytohormones: A Molecular View from the Discovery to Hormonal Interactions in Plant Development and Stress Adaptation.Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 331. [CrossRef]135. Ganie, S.A.; Bhat, J.A.; Devoto, A. The inﬂuence of endophytes on rice ﬁtness under environmental stresses. Plant Mol. Biol. 2022 ,109, 447–467. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Sun, L.; Cao, M.; Liu, F.; Wang, Y.; Wan, J.; Wang, R.; Zhou, H.; Wang, W.; Xu, J. The volatile organic compounds of Floccularialuteovirens modulate plant growth and metabolism in Arabidopsis thaliana .Plant Soil 2020 ,456, 207–221. [CrossRef]137. Fincheira, P .; Quiroz, A. Microbial volatiles as plant growth inducers. Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,208, 63–75. [CrossRef] [PubMed]138. Fincheira, P .; Quiroz, A.; Tortella, G.; Diez, M.C.; Rubilar, O. Current advances in plant-microbe communication via volatileorganic compounds as an innovative strategy to improve plant growth. Microbiol. Res. 2021 ,247, 126726. [CrossRef] [PubMed]139. Weisskopf, L.; Schulz, S.; Garbeva, P . Microbial volatile organic compounds in intra-kingdom and inter-kingdom interactions.Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2021 ,19, 391–404. [CrossRef] [PubMed]140. Choudoir, M.; Rossabi, S.; Gebert, M.; Helmig, D.; Fierer, N.; Whiteson, K.L. A Phylogenetic and Functional Perspective onVolatile Organic Compound Production by Actinobacteria .mSystems 2019 ,4, e00295-18. [CrossRef]141. Tilocca, B.; Cao, A.; Migheli, Q. Scent of a Killer: Microbial Volatilome and Its Role in the Biological Control of Plant Pathogens.Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 41. [CrossRef]142. Poveda, J. Beneﬁcial effects of microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) in plants. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2021 ,168, 104118.[CrossRef]143. Spormann, S.; Soares, C.; Teixeira, J.; Fidalgo, F. Polyamines as key regulatory players in plants under metal stress—A way for anenhanced tolerance. Ann. Appl. Biol. 2021 ,178, 209–226. [CrossRef]144. Alcázar, R.; Bueno, M.; Tiburcio, A.F. Polyamines: Small Amines with Large Effects on Plant Abiotic Stress Tolerance. Cells 2020 ,9, 2373. [CrossRef] [PubMed]145. Kim, H.T.; Baritugo, K.-A.; Oh, Y.H.; Kang, K.-H.; Jung, Y.J.; Jang, S.; Song, B.K.; Lee, M.O.; Hwang, Y.T.; Park, K.; et al. High-LevelConversion of l-lysine into Cadaverine by Escherichia coli Whole Cell Biocatalyst Expressing Hafnia alvei l-lysine Decarboxylase.Polymers 2019 ,11, 1184. [CrossRef] [PubMed]146. Elnahal, A.S.M.; El-Saadony, M.T.; Saad, A.M.; Desoky, E.-S.M.; El-Tahan, A.M.; Rady, M.M.; Abuqamar, S.F.; El-Tarabily, K.A. Theuse of microbial inoculants for biological control, plant growth promotion, and sustainable agriculture: A review. Eur. J. PlantPathol. 2022 ,162, 759–792. [CrossRef]147. Cosme, F.; In ês, A.; Vilela, A. Consumer’s acceptability and health consciousness of probiotic and prebiotic of non-dairy products.Food Res. Int. 2022 ,151, 110842. [CrossRef] [PubMed]148. García-Caparr ós, P .; De Filippis, L.; Gul, A.; Hasanuzzaman, M.; Ozturk, M.; Altay, V .; Lao, M.T. Oxidative Stress and AntioxidantMetabolism under Adverse Environmental Conditions: A Review. Bot. Rev. 2021 ,87, 421–466. [CrossRef]149. Bañares, A.B.; Valdehuesa, K.N.G.; Ramos, K.R.M.; Nisola, G.M.; Lee, W.-K.; Chung, W.-J. A pH-responsive genetic sensor for thedynamic regulation of D-xylonic acid accumulation in Escherichia coli .Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2020 ,104, 2097–2108. [CrossRef][PubMed]150. Podleš áková, K.; Ugena, L.; Sp íchal, L.; Doležal, K.; De Diego, N. Phytohormones and polyamines regulate plant stress responsesby altering GABA pathway. New Biotechnol. 2019 ,48, 53–65. [CrossRef]151. Menéndez, A.B.; Calzadilla, P .I.; Sansberro, P .A.; Espasandin, F.D.; Gazquez, A.; Bordenave, C.D.; Maiale, S.J.; Rodr íguez, A.A.;Maguire, V .G.; Campestre, M.P .; et al. Polyamines and Legumes: Joint Stories of Stress, Nitrogen Fixation and Environment. Front.Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 1415. [CrossRef]