OpinionMicrobial drought resistance may destabilizesoil carbonSteven D. Allison1,2,*,@Droughts are becoming more frequent and intense with climate change. Asplants and microbes respond to drought, there may be consequences for thevast stocks of organic carbon stored in soils. If microbes sustain their activityunder drought, soils could lose carbon, especially if inputs from plants decline.Empirical and theoretical studies reveal multiple mechanisms of microbialdrought resistance, including tolerance and avoidance. Physiological responsesallow microbes to acclimate to drought within minutes to days. Along with dis-persal, shifts in community composit ion could allow microbiomes to maintainfunctioning despite drought. Microbes might also adapt to drier conditionsthrough evolutionary processes. Togeth er, these mechanisms could result insoil carbon losses larger than currently anticipated under climate change.Climate change affects soil microbesAround the world, climate change is impacting all forms of life, including microbiomes (seeGlossary ). As the engines of Earth ’s biogeochemical cycles [ 1], microbiomes can alter global car-bon and nutrient cycling as the environment changes. Given that soils hold nearly 2000 Pg carbon[2], the climate responses of soil microbiomes could impact global carbon balance and futurelevels of greenhouse gases.In addition to temperature, climate change alters rainfall, snow cover, seasonality, and the fre-quencies of extreme weather events [ 3]. Climate models predict a future with more frequentand intense droughts [ 4], and drylands occupy over 45% of the global land area, so knowinghow microbes respond to dry conditions is valuable for managing and conserving terrestrial eco-systems across much of the planet [ 5]. Although microbial responses to drought have receivedincreasing attention [ 6,7], we do not yet fully understand how this important global changemight alter the carbon cycling functions of soil microbiomes [ 8]. This knowledge gap makes it dif-ﬁcult to predict the magnitude and direction of carbon –climate feedbacks in the Earth system. Toimprove these predictions, we need a comprehensive understanding of both plant and microbialcommunity responses to drought across ecosystems.Previous studies [ 9] show that microbiomes cope with drou ght through a wide array of mechanismsthat fall into three main categories: physiological acclimation , community shifts, and evolution(Figure 1 ). Physiological mechanisms include change s in gene expression and metabolic pathwaysthat facilitate microbial acclimation to desiccatio n and rewetting. Community shifts occur when droughtselects for greater relative abundance of microbial taxa with adaptations for life under dry conditions.Dispersal contributes to community shifts by allow ing drought-adapted taxa to migrate into dry loca-tions. Evolution can lead to new microbial traits that confer drought resistance or tolerance [ 10].Given this high potential for microbes to tolerate or avoid drought, I argue that drought-drivenlosses of carbon from soil will be larger than currently recognized. In most aerobic soils,HighlightsDrought frequency and intensity areincreasing with climate change.Soil microbes cope with drought throughphysiological acclimation, dispersal,shifts in community composition, andevolutionary adaptation.By acting as decomposers, microbescontrol the loss of carbon from soil.Physiological, ecological, and evolutionaryresponses allow microbes to sustainlosses of carbon from soils experiencingdrought.1Department of Ecology and EvolutionaryBiology, University of California, Irvine,CA, USA2Department of Earth System Science,University of California, Irvine, CA, USA*Correspondence:allisons@uci.edu (S.D. Allison).@Twitter: @StevenDAllisonTrends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xx https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tim.2023.03.002 1© 2023 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ).Trends inMicrobiology OPEN ACCESSTIMI 2217 No. of Pages 8heterotrophic microbes like bacteria and fungi are the primary gatekeepers for carbon loss [ 11].If heterotrophic microbes bounce back from drought by acclimating, shifting, and adapting, theymay sustain carbon losses from soil. Those losses would need to be offset by carbon inputs fromresilient plants to avert a net decline in soil carbon stocks.Soil carbon consequences of physiological response to droughtPhysiological acclimation can allow microbes to survive, grow, and maintain carbon cycling in theface of drought [ 12](Figure 2 ). In turn, these physiological responses may help heterotrophic mi-crobes to sustain soil carbon losses. Soil microbial taxa vary widely in their rates of mortality underdesiccating conditions in the laboratory [ 13], and there are clear moisture thresholds for microbialrespiration in soils and litter. Some bacteria may respire down to water potentials of –10 MPa, andsome fungi down to –60 MPa [ 14]. To retain cellular water under low ambient water potentials,microbes may produce osmolytes through constitutive and inducible pathways [ 15,16].Osmolytes are low-molecular-weight compounds that are readily metabolized and could fuel de-composition of existing soil organic matter through priming effects [ 17].TrendsTrends inin Microbiology Microbiology Moisture availabilityPhysiological functionAcclimationEvolutionDry WetDroughtresponseFigure 1. Physiological response curves may shift as microbiomes respond to drought. In the short term (minutesto days), physiological acclimation may help to sustain function, such as soil carbon decomposition. Over weeks to decades,community shifts and evolution could alter response curves to maintain functioning under dry conditions. Broken linesindicate potential variation in the breadth of the shifted response curves [ 58]. Figure created with BioRender.com .TrendsTrends inin Microbiology Microbiology SporesResuscitationDormancyOsmolytesBio lmCellwallsDispersalRefugiaDroughtFigure 2. Physiological mechanisms of microbial response to drought. Drought tolerance strategies includeprotection from cell walls, bio ﬁlm formation, and production of osmolytes. Microbes may avoid drought by forming sporesor going dormant during dry periods and resuscitating cellular activity upon wet-up. Microbes may also disperse to areaswith greater water availability, such as water- ﬁlled soil pores that act as refugia. Figure created with BioRender.com .Trends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESS2 Trends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xxGlossaryEnvironmental selection: the processby which environmental conditions suchas moisture or temperature causewell-adapted taxa to increase in relativeabundance (also called environmentalﬁltering).Heterotrophs: organisms that obtainenergy by consuming reduced forms ofcarbon.Legacy: a difference in communitycomposition or functioning resultingfrom prior exposure to an environmentalperturbation.Microbiome: a community ofmicroorganisms that may includebacteria, fungi, archaea, and viruses.Physiological acclimation: change inmetabolism or behavior that improvesorganismal performance without achange in genotype.Trait: ap h e n o t y p i cc h a r a c t e r i s t i co fa norganism, population, or community.YAS framework: an hypothesis thatmicrobes fall into at least three life-historycategories that trade off with oneanother due to resource limitation: highgrowth Yield, resource Acquisition, andStress tolerance.Microbes can also resist drought by producing extracellular metabolites and cell walls. For exam-ple, extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) form bio ﬁlms that reduce water loss [ 18]. As stickypolymers, EPS may contribute to soil aggregation and physical protection of organic matter [ 19].In addition, thick cell walls may enable some microbes to prevent water loss even under low en-vironmental water potentials [ 20]. Upon death, cell walls may contribute to necromass accumu-lation in soil [ 21], which could counter drought-induced carbon losses. Multiple drought tolerancemechanisms may coincide; for example, EPS and trehalose production both contributed to des-iccation resistance of E. coli strains in the laboratory [ 16]. Overall, the potential for net carbon lossfrom soil is higher if microbes respond to drought by producing simple metabolites like osmolytesversus more complex EPS and cell wall materials ( Figure 3 , Key ﬁgure).In addition to resisting or toler ating desiccation, some microbes employ strategies to avoiddrought. Cells may go dormant by shutting down metabolism or forming spores that can surviveextreme desiccation for decades or even centuries [ 22]. When dry conditions abate, dormantcells resume activity. Upon rewetting, some taxa activate within minutes, whereas other requiredays to ramp up growth and respiration [ 23]. These cycles of dormancy and resuscitationcould allow higher decomposition rates during wet periods to offset lower rates during drought.Known as the Birch effect [ 24], this pattern of respiration pulses following wet-up may result ingreater carbon release than observed under stable moisture conditions in some soils [ 25].Another drought avoidance mechanism is occupation of refugia, or microsites in the soil withhigher water potential. Such microsites may occur at the interfaces of soil particles, deep in thesoil pro ﬁle, or in topographic locations with higher water availability [ 26]. Multiple traits could facil-itate microbial strategies of microsite occupation. Flagella or other motility mechanisms couldKey figureDirect and indirect feedbacks of trait-based microbial strategies on soilcarbon decompositionTrendsTrends inin Microbiology Microbiology Figure 3. Investment in drought tolerance may trade off against resource acquisition, which could reduce decomposition.Alternatively, drought tolerance strategies could help to maintain decomposer biomass and generate easily decomposedmetabolites, resulting in losses of soil carbon. Abbreviation: EPS, extracellular polymeric substances.Trends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESSTrends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xx 3allow microbes to navigate toward high-water microsites as soils dry down. Conversely, dispersaltraits, such as production of spores and volati le organic compounds that attract arthropodvectors, could be important in allowing microbes to migrate out of refugia and recolonize soilsfollowing wet-up [ 27].A broad range of life history traits can in ﬂuence microbial strategies for drought survival at thepopulation scale. For example, microbial taxa that grow quickly under wet conditions couldbuild up large populations and disperse widely, enabling some cells to reach wet refugia duringdrought. Such taxa might have very low resistance to desiccation, instead coping with changingmoisture availability through boom-and-bust cycles of population growth and death [ 28].While there are many mechanisms of microbial drought response, it remains unclear which aremost important in a ﬁeld setting. The physiological costs of different strategies likely vary in mag-nitude and resource demands [ 20]. Strategy costs and bene ﬁts may in ﬂuence microbial survival,growth, and functioning under drought in ways that depend on the ecological context. In ecosys-tems where moisture levels ﬂuctuate over days to weeks, tolerance strategies such as EPS pro-duction may be effective at maintaining consistency in extracellular water potential. Conversely,avoidance strategies like dormancy may be mo re effective in places with extended droughtperiods, such as deserts or Mediterranean climates.Soil carbon consequences of ecological response to droughtAt the community scale, microbial taxa that cannot acclimate to drought may be replaced asbetter-adapted taxa migrate in and become more dominant [ 29]. Through this process of envi-ronmental selection , drought often alters soil microbiome composition [ 6,30]. In leaf litter,drought reduces bacterial populations and alters bacterial and fungal community composition[31–33]. Sheik et al.[34] observed similar changes in response to warming-induced drought ina tall grass prairie soil. Other studies con ﬁrm that drought favors fungi over bacteria, and the rel-ative abundances of taxa shift within these broad groups [ 35]. For example, Actinobacteria be-come more dominant with drought whereas Prot eobacteria decline in terms of both relativeabundance and activity [ 36]. Relative to fungal co-occurrence networks, bacterial networks ingrassland mesocosms were more sensitive to drought disruption [ 37].Due to evolutionary trade-offs, drought-ind uced changes in microbiome composition mayhave consequences for soil carbon cycling. The YAS framework assumes that microbestrade off resource investments in growth yield, res ource acquisition, and stress tolerance traits[38]. If microbes invest in drought tolerance, tra de-offs with other YAS traits could affect soilcarbon storage. Drought-toler ant microbes may have lower growth yield, which could reducetheir biomass and decomposition ability [ 39]. They may also have fewer resources available toproduce enzymes involved in the degradation of soil organic matter. However, if these trade-offs are weak or non-existent, a shift toward drought tolerance strategies may not limit soilcarbon decomposition.Empirical evidence for drought-induced YAS trade-offs is mixed. Although drought can alter thefrequencies of genes involved in soil carbon and nitrogen cycling [ 40,41], Alster et al.[42] did notobserve trade-offs with drought tolerance in a laboratory experiment with fungal isolates grown atdifferent moisture levels. In a parallel ﬁeld experiment, they found good evidence for a trade-offbetween drought tolerance and growth yield, but little evidence for trade-offs with resource acqui-sition [ 43]. In a California grassland, experimental drought altered microbial abundance and com-munity composition, resulting in lower rates of litter decomposition by drought-exposedmicrobiomes [ 44]. However, little impairment of litter decomposition was observed whenTrends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESS4 Trends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xxdesert-adapted microbiomes were transplanted to cooler, wetter sites along a climate gradient insouthern California [ 45].Even if drought reduces the microbiome capacity for soil carbon degradation in the short term,resilience in community composition could allow carbon losses to recover over time. Alternatively,if recovery is slow, there could be a legacy of prior exposure to drought. Kaisermann et al.[46]found evidence for drought legacy effects on microbiome composition and microbe-mediatedplant growth. Conversely, there were no drough t legacy effects on bacte rial growth, fungalgrowth, or microbial community composition after at least 10 years of drought treatment at ﬁveEuropean sites along a climate gradient [ 47]. In the California grassland system [ 44], there wasa legacy of impaired decomposition, but it dissipated after 1 year ( Figure 4 ). A complementarymodeling analysis con ﬁrmed that moderate drought was unlikely to cause legacies of impairmentthat lasted beyond this timeframe [ 48]. These results suggest that legacy effects may not occurunless drought intensity is strong enough to alter microbiome composition through communityshifts or evolution.Some studies have found legacies of resilience to drought. Prior exposure to 16 years of droughtcaused a Mediterranean soil microbiome to retain higher bacterial alpha diversity following exper-imental drought treatment in a greenhouse experiment [ 35]. In Puerto Rican tropical forest soilspreviously exposed to drought, a second drought treatment had relatively little additional impacton the phylogenetic diversity of bacteria [ 49]. Canarini et al.[50] found that recurrent drought over10 years altered microbial community composition more than 1 year of drought. At the sametime, the 10-year drought treatment resulted in a strong legacy effect that buffered microbial com-munity functioning relative to the 1-year drought.Integrated consequences of drought responses for soil carbonCollectively, previous empirical studies support the argument that drought can lead to substantiallosses of soil carbon. Based on a meta-analysis, the proportion of carbon lost with drought andrewetting increases with soil carbon content, meaning that carbon-rich soils may be particularlyvulnerable to drought impacts [ 8]. Multiple microbial mechanisms may contribute to this re-sponse. Drought selects for microbial taxa, such as Actinobacteria, with adaptive physiologicaltraits. These taxa increase in relative abundance, resulting in altered microbiome compositionthat often, but not always, persists following drought. When it persists, a change in microbiome2011 2012 20130510152025% Mass lossAmbientDroughtTrendsTrends inin Microbiology Microbiology Figure 4. Legacy of drought exposure inhibits microbiome functioning for 1 year. Microbiomes from ambient anddrought plots in California grassland were transplanted onto sterilized grassland litter which decomposed in the ﬁeld for 1year. Microbiomes were then collected at the end of the year a nd inoculated onto fresh litter for two subsequent years.Microbiomes originating from drought plots decomposed signi ﬁcantly less litter mass, but only during the ﬁrst year. Figureadapted from Martiny et al.[44].Trends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESSTrends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xx 5composition often, though not always, results in legacy effects on ecological properties such asmicrobial biomass, extracellular enzyme activity, and plant growth. In some cases, these legaciesimpair ecosystem functioning ( Figure 4 ), but in other cases, they can buffer functioning againstongoing or future drought disturbance [ 50].The implication of these outcomes is that microbiomes display an array of responses to environ-mental selection by drought, only a subset of which impair functioning. Together with physiolog-ical acclimation and evolutionary adaptation, these ecological responses likely provide resistanceand resilience of the soil microbiome ’s diversity and metabolic capacity in the face of drought [ 51].In contrast to YAS predictions, there is limited empirical evidence that drought-induced shifts inmicrobiome composition reduce the potential for organic matter decay through resource alloca-tion trade-offs. Although such trade-offs may occur, they may have offsetting impacts on carboncycling; for example, a trade-off-induced decline in extracellular enzyme production could be off-set by a greater total biomass of drought-tolerant microbial decomposers.It is also possible that microbes have evolved drought-tolerance mechanisms that avoid trade-offs with resource acquisition traits. Rather than trading off, investment in carbon and nutrient ac-quisition could fuel the production of metabolites that confer drought tolerance. Under selectionby drought, de novo mutations could introduce novel genetic variation that leads to evolutionaryadaptation through broader exploration of trait space. Although experimental evolution studieswith drought are limited, comparative genomic studies show that bacterial and fungal responsesto drought are phylogenetically conserved [ 33], and there is longstanding evidence that microbesevolve within a few hundred generations in response to temperature change [ 52,53]. We needadditional experiments to understand the rate s and mechanisms of microbial evolution in re-sponse to changing drought frequency and intensity, along with subsequent rewetting.Heterotrophic microbes are key determinants of soil carbon turnover, but the net carbon lost willdepend on how steeply plant inputs decline as ecosystems become drier. Although drought oftenreduces plant productivity and may trigger legacy effects [ 54], the consequences for soil carbonbalance are more uncertain. Following drought, trees may pump carbon below ground to recoverroot function [ 55]. Also, symbiotic microbes in the rhizosphere and phyllosphere may respond todrought in ways that bene ﬁt their plant hosts, boosting the drought resilience of plant inputs andsoil microbiomes in tandem [ 56]. Yet, given that deserti ﬁcation often results in soil carbon loss [ 5],recovery of plant inputs may be insuf ﬁcient to counter carbon losses driven by resilient microbes.Overall, the relative drought response of plant inputs compared to microbial decomposition re-mains uncertain (see Outstanding questions ).Concluding remarks and future perspectivesAlthough desiccation has direct negative impacts on microbial metabolism, multiple mechanismsmay help to sustain soil carbon losses under drought. Physiological acclimation, shifts in commu-nity composition and life history strategy, as well as evolutionary adaptation, may all maintain het-erotrophic functioning in soils that experience higher drought f requency and intensity. Whilestable functioning is often bene ﬁcial, in this case it could reduce soil carbon storage if plant carboninputs decline more steeply with drought than heterotrophic losses. In a global modeling analysis,soils were predicted to lose more carbon if microbes adapted to climate warming [ 57]. The samemight happen if microbes adapt to drought.Still, accurately predicting the net impact of drought on soil carbon will require additional research.First, we need empirical measurements of heterotrophic sensitivity to drought, including the rela-tive contributions of physiol ogical, ecological, and evolutio nary mechanisms to droughtTrends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESS6 Trends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xxOutstanding questionsWhat are the physiological costs ofdrought strategies? Quantifying thecosts of desiccation tolerance andavoidance is essential for predictingwhich strategies are most relevant.Several techniques offer promise forquanti ﬁcation. Transcriptomics andmetabolomics can provide semi-quantitative data on the metabolicpathways active under drought.Genome-scale metabolic models canleverage genomic sequences to pre-dict metabolic rates as environmentalconditions change.H o wd om i c r o b e se v o l v ei nr e s p o n s et odrought? Evolutionary processes suchas mutation, horizontal gene transfer,and genetic drift likely contribute tomicrobial drought response. Still, thedominant mechanisms, rates of change,and consequences for phenotyperemain largely unexplored, especially incomparison to other selective forces likewarming. Likewise, it remains unclearhow microbes adapt to long-termchanges in drought frequency andintensity of precipitation events. Addi-tional evolution experiments should berun in the laboratory and ﬁeld to ﬁllthese knowledge gaps.How do plant responses to droughtcompare with microbial responses?Although there are many studies ofplant physiology, community shifts, andevolution in response to drought, theconsequences for soil carbon inputs arenot well understood. Drought mayinduce some plants to allocate morecarbon below ground to acquire water,but if plant productivity declines due towater limitation, reallocation may notmaintain carbon inputs to soil.Quantifying plant inputs versus microbialoutputs of carbon is crucial fordetermining soil carbon balance underdrought.How do we predict soil carbon balancewith drought? We need improvedmodels that account for mechanismsof plant and microbial response todrought at the ecosystem scale. A hier-archical, multiscale approach can helpto reconcile the vastly different scalesof microbial, plant, and ecosystem pro-cesses. For instance, outputs from trait-based, microbial-scale models cangenerate moisture-response functionsfor use in ecosystem models.resistance and resilience [ 58]. These data should be gathered at broad spatial scales, for exam-ple, along gradients, to assess dependence on environmental variation. Observations must alsocover a range of temporal scales, from minutes to decades, to quantify rates of response todrought. Second, microbial, ecosystem, and plant ecologists should work together to assess rel-ative drought impacts on plant inputs versus heterotrophic losses. Finally, we need updatedmodels of drought impacts on soil carbon cycling from microbial to global scales [ 59,60]. Modelsare powerful tools for scaling up measurements and mechanisms to predict soil carbon balance.With well-crafted models in hand, scientists can make better predictions to guide policy and mit-igation efforts as the climate changes.AcknowledgmentsFunding for this work was provided by the US National Scie nce Foundation (DEB-201648 2) and the US Department ofEnergy, Of ﬁce of Science, BER (SC-0020382).Declaration of interestsNo interests are declared.References1.Falkowski, P.G. et al. (2008) The microbial engine that drives theEarth ‘s biogeochemical cycles. Science 320, 1034 –10402.Jobbágy, E.G. and Jackson, R.B. (2000) The vertical distributionof soil organic carbon and its relation to climate and vegetation.Ecol. Appl. 10, 423 –4363.IPCC (2021) Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis.Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Reportof the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , IPCC4.Cook, B.I. et al. (2015) Unprecedented 21st century drought risk inthe American Southwest and Central Plains. Sci. Adv. 1, e14000825.Lal, R. (2001) Potential of deserti ﬁcation control to sequester car-bon and mitigate the greenhouse effect. Clim. Chang. 51, 35 –726.Bogati, K. and Walczak, M. (2022) The impact of drought stresson soil microbial community, enzyme activities and plants.Agronomy 12, 1897.Malik, A.A. and Bouskill, N.J. (2022) Drought impacts on micro-bial trait distribution and feedback to soil carbon cycling. Funct.Ecol. 36, 1442 –14568.Canarini, A. et al. (2017) Soil carbon loss regulated by drought in-tensity and available substrate: a meta-analysis. Soil Biol.Biochem. 112, 90 –999.Schimel, J.P. (2018) Life in dry soils: effects of drought on soil mi-crobial communities and processes. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. Syst.49, 409 –43210.Martiny, J.B.H. et al. (2015) Microbiomes in light of traits: a phy-logenetic perspective. Science 350, 64911.Moyano, F.E. et al. (2013) Responses of soil heterotrophic respi-ration to moisture availability: an exploration of processes andmodels. Soil Biol. Biochem. 59, 72 –8512.Alvarez, H.M. et al. (2004) Physiological and morphological re-sponses of the soil bacterium Rhodococcus opacus strainPD630 to water stress. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 50, 75 –8613.Chen, M. and Alexander, M. (1973) Survival of soil bacteria dur-ing prolonged desiccation. Soil Biol. Biochem.5, 213 –22114.Manzoni, S. et al. (2012) Responses of soil microbial communitiesto water stress: results from a meta-analysis. Ecology 93, 770 –78215.Harris, R.F. (1981) Effect of water potential on microbial growthand activity. In Water Potential Relations in Soil Microbiology(Parr, J.F. et al., eds), pp. 23 –95, American Society of Agronomy16.Zhang, Q. and Yan, T. (2012) Correlation of intracellular trehaloseconcentration with desiccation resistance of soil Escherichia colipopulations. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 78, 7407 –741317.Warren, C.R. (2016) Do microbial osmolytes or extracellulardepolymerisation products accumulate as soil dries? Soil Biol.Biochem. 98, 54 –6318.Roberson, E.B. and Firestone, M.K. (1992) Relationship between des-iccation and exopolysaccharide production in a soil Pseudomonassp.Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58, 1284 –129119.Miltner, A. et al. (2012) SOM genesis: microbial biomass as a sig-niﬁcant source. Biogeochemistry 111, 41 –5520.Schimel, J. et al. (2007) Microbial stress-response physiology andits implications for ecosystem function. Ecology 88, 1386 –139421.Schurig, C. et al. (2013) Microbial cell-envelope fragments andthe formation of soil organic matter: a case study from a glacierforeﬁeld.Biogeochemistry 113, 595 –61222.Billi, D. and Potts, M. (2002) Life and death of dried prokaryotes.Res. Microbiol. 153, 7 –1223.Placella, S.A. et al. (2012) Rainfall-induced carbon dioxide pulsesresult from sequential resuscitation of phylogenetically clustered mi-crobial groups. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109, 10931 –1093624.Birch, H.F. (1958) The effect of soil drying on humus decomposi-tion and nitrogen availability. Plant Soil 10, 9 –3125.Miller, A.E. et al. (2005) Episodic rewetting enhances carbon andnitrogen release from chaparral soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37,2195 –220426.Howe, J.A. and Smith, A.P. (2021) 2 –The soil habitat. In Princi-ples and Applications of Soil Microbiology (3rd edn) (Gentry, T.J.et al., eds), pp. 23 –55, Elsevier27.Choudoir, M.J. and DeAngelis, K.M. (2022) A framework for inte-grating microbial dispersal modes into soil ecosystem ecology.iScience 25, 10388728.Meisner, A. et al. (2017) Partial drying accelerates bacterialgrowth recovery to rewetting. Soil Biol. Biochem. 112, 269 –27629.Allison, S.D. and Martiny, J.B.H. (2008) Resistance, resilience,and redundancy in microbial communities. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U. S. A. 105, 11512 –1151930.Ochoa-Hueso, R. et al. (2018) Drought consistently alters thecomposition of soil fungal and bacterial communities in grass-lands from two continents. Glob. Chang. Biol. 24, 2818 –282731.Allison, S.D. et al. (2013) Microbial abundance and compositioninﬂuence litter decomposition response to environmentalchange. Ecology 94, 714 –72532.Matulich, K. et al. (2015) Temporal variation overshadows the re-sponse of leaf litter microbial communities to simulated globalchange. ISME J. 9, 2477 –248933.Amend, A.S. et al. (2016) Microbial response to simulated globalchange is phylogenetically conserved and linked with functionalpotential. ISME J. 10, 109 –11834.Sheik, C.S. et al. (2011) Effect of warming and drought on grass-land microbial communities. ISME J. 5, 1692 –170035.Preece, C. et al. (2019) Effects of past and current drought on thecomposition and diversity of soil microbial communities. Soil Biol.Biochem. 131, 28 –3936.Bastida, F. et al. (2017) Differential sensitivity of total and activesoil microbial communities to drought and forest management.Glob. Chang. Biol. 23, 4185 –4203Trends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESSTrends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xx 737.de Vries, F.T. et al. (2018) Soil bacterial networks are less stableunder drought than fungal networks. Nat. Commun. 9, 303338.Malik, A.A. et al. (2020) De ﬁning trait-based microbial strategieswith consequences for soil carbon cycling under climate change.ISME J. 14, 1 –939.Killham, K. and Firestone, M.K. (1984) Proline transport increasesgrowth ef ﬁciency in salt-stressed Streptomyces griseus .Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 48, 239 –24140.Berlemont, R. et al. (2014) Cellulolytic potential under environ-mental changes in microbial communities from grassland litter.Front. Microbiol. 5, 63941.Nelson, M.B. et al. (2015) Nitrogen cycling potential of a grasslandlitter microbial community. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 81, 7012 –702242.Alster, C.J. et al. (2021) Exploring trait trade-offs for fungal decom-posers in a Southern California grassland. Front. Microbiol. 12, 66543.Alster, C.J. et al. (2022) Trait relationships of fungal decomposersin response to drought using a dual ﬁeld and laboratory ap-proach. Ecosphere 13, e406344.Martiny, J.B. et al. (2017) Microbial legacies alter decompositionin response to simulated global change. ISME J. 11, 490 –49945.Glassman, S.I. et al. (2018) Decomposition responses to climatedepend on microbial community composition. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U. S. A. 115, 11994 –1199946.Kaisermann, A. et al. (2017) Legacy effects of drought on plant-soilfeedbacks and plant-plant interactions. New Phytol. 215, 1413 –142447.Rousk, J. et al. (2013) Investigating the long-term legacy of droughtand warming on the soil microbial community across ﬁve Europeanshrubland ecosystems. Glob. Chang. Biol. 19, 3872 –388448.Wang, B. and Allison, S.D. (2021) Drought legacies mediated bytrait tradeoffs in soil microbiomes. Ecosphere 12, e0356249.Bouskill, N.J. et al. (2012) Pre-exposure to drought increases theresistance of tropical forest soil bacterial communities to ex-tended drought. ISME J. 7, 384 –39450.Canarini, A. et al. (2021) Ecological memory of recurrent droughtmodi ﬁes soil processes via changes in soil microbial community.Nat. Commun. 12, 530851.Zhou, Z. et al. (2020) Meta-analysis of the impacts of globalchange factors on soil microbial diversity and functionality. Nat.Commun. 11, 307252.Lenski, R.E. (2017) Experimental evolution and the dynamics ofadaptation and genome evolution in microbial populations.ISME J. 11, 2181 –219453.Romero-Olivares, A.L. et al. (2015) Neurospora discreta as amodel to assess adaptation of soil fungi to warming. BMCEvol. Biol. 15, 19854.Hoover, D.L. et al. (2021) Drought resistance and resilience: therole of soil moisture –plant interactions and legacies in a drylandecosystem. J. Ecol. 109, 3280 –329455.Hagedorn, F. et al. (2016) Recovery of trees from drought de-pends on belowground sink control. Nat. Plants 2, 1611156.Lau, J.A. and Lennon, J.T. (2012) Rapid responses of soil micro-organisms improve plant ﬁtness in novel environments. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 109, 14058 –1406257.Wieder, W.R. et al. (2013) Global soil carbon projections are im-proved by modelling microbial processes. Nat. Clim. Chang. 3,909 –91258.Evans, S.E. et al. (2022) Microbes, memory and moisture:predicting microbial moisture responses and their impact on car-bon cycling. Funct. Ecol. 36, 1430 –144159.Zhou, J. et al. (2021) A comparison of linear conventional andnonlinear microbial models for simulating pulse dynamics of soilheterotrophic respiration in a semi-arid grassland. J. Geophys.Res. Biogeosci. 126, e2020JG00612060.Allison, S.D. and Goulden, M.L. (2017) Consequences ofdrought tolerance traits for microbial decomposition in theDEMENT model. Soil Biol. Biochem. 107, 104 –113Trends in MicrobiologyOPEN ACCESS8 Trends in Microbiology, Month 2023, Vol. xx, No. xx