“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page1—# 1REVIEW ARTICLEpublished: 26 September 2012doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00348Microbial control over carbon cycling in soilJoshua P . Schimel* and Sean M. Schaeffer†Department of Ecology, Evolution and Marine Biology, University of California at Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA, USAEdited by:Diana Reid Nemergut, University ofColorado at Boulder, USAReviewed by:Anthony Y annarell, University ofIllinois at Urbana-Champaign, USAMark Bradford, Y ale University, USAKelly Sierra Ramriez, Global SoilBiodiversity Initiative, Colorado StateUniversity, USA*Correspondence:Joshua P . Schimel, Department ofEcology, Evolution and MarineBiology, University of California atSanta Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA93106, USA.e-mail: schimel@lifesci.ucsb.edu†Current address:Sean M. Schaeffer, Department ofBiosystems Engineering & SoilScience, University of T ennessee,2506 E.J. Chapman Drive, Knoxville,TN 37996-4531, USA.A major thrust of terrestrial microbial ecology is focused on understanding when and howthe composition of the microbial community affects the functioning of biogeochemical pro-cesses at the ecosystem scale (meters-to-kilometers and days-to-years). While researchhas demonstrated these linkages for physiologically and phylogenetically “narrow” pro-cesses such as trace gas emissions and nitriﬁcation, there is less conclusive evidencethat microbial community composition inﬂuences the “broad” processes of decomposi-tion and organic matter (OM) turnover in soil. In this paper, we consider how soil microbialcommunity structure inﬂuences C cycling. We consider the phylogenetic level at whichmicrobes form meaningful guilds, based on overall life history strategies, and suggest thatthese are associated with deep evolutionary divergences, while much of the species-leveldiversity probably reﬂects functional redundancy. We then consider under what conditionsit is possible for differences among microbes to affect process dynamics, and argue thatwhile microbial community structure may be important in the rate of OM breakdown inthe rhizosphere and in detritus, it is likely not important in the mineral soil. In mineral soil,physical access to occluded or sorbed substrates is the rate-limiting process. Microbialcommunity inﬂuences on OM turnover in mineral soils are based on how organisms allo-cate the C they take up – not only do the fates of the molecules differ, but they can affectthe soil system differently as well. For example, extracellular enzymes and extracellularpolysaccharides can be key controls on soil structure and function. How microbes allocateC may also be particularly important for understanding the long-term fate of C in soil – is itsequestered or not?Keywords: microbial communities, carbon, diversity, litter, roots, soilInterest in how the composition of soil microbial communitiesgoverns the functioning of soil and ecosystem processes goes backto the dawn of microbiology with workers such as Pasteur andWinogradsky. However, the way we think about such issues hasevolved – the focus is no longer identifying organisms with a capac-ity to carry out a function, e.g., characterizing the traits of speciﬁcnitriﬁers ( Waksman, 1927; Meyer, 1993) but on how varying thecomposition of a group affects the dynamics of the process it car-ries out – for example, how differences in the nitriﬁers presentaffect nitriﬁcation kinetics (Braker and Conrad, 2011 ). This shiftin the nature of the questions has been driven by three factors.The ﬁrst is the development of techniques that allow us to char-acterize the identities of microbes in situ (16S and 18S rDNA),their potential (functional genes), and their physiological state(e.g., RNA/DNA ratios; stable isotope probing; BrDU incorpo-ration; Roux-Michollet et al., 2010; Morales and Holben, 2011).The second is the growing interest in integrating evolutionaryand ecological theory into microbial ecology to better understandmicrobial systems ( Jiang,2007; Prosser et al.,2007; Peay et al.,2008 ;Fierer et al., 2009; Locey, 2010). The third is the societal and sci-entiﬁc need to better understand and model important processesthat inﬂuence ecosystem functions and the global climate system(Schimel and Gulledge, 1998; Reid, 2011).In some ways, the thinking in microbial ecology has paralleledthe development of plant ecology – questions have gone from“who’s there?,” analogous to the work of Joseph Banks and othernaturalists in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, to “whyare they there?,” and “what are they doing?,” analogous to Tansleyand Clements in the early 20th centuries. A question central tomuch of modern microbial ecology is “does who’s there matter?”As microbial ecologists, we might wish the answer to this ques-tion to be “yes,” but in fact, this is not certain ( Prosser, 2012). It islikely that for some processes the composition of the communitymatters, while for others it does not, and that the answer changeswith physical and phylogenetic scale. Schimel (1995) postulatedthat“At a small enough scale, microbial community structure mustbe a dominant control on ecological processes, but as we move upin scale toward the ecosystem and integrate across many individualcommunities, the inﬂuence of individual community structuresdecreases.” That paper posed the question “Is there some minimalscale necessary to adequately explain ecosystem processes at whichmicrobial community structure still has a measurable inﬂuence onthe nature and rates of those processes?”From that question grew the argument that “narrow”processes – those that involve a speciﬁc physiological pathway orwhich are carried out by a phylogenetically constrained groupof organisms – might be sensitive to the composition of theguild of microorganisms carrying it out, even at the ecosystemlevel (Schimel, 1995; Groffman and Bohlen, 1999 ). Examples ofsuch processes include speciﬁc plant–microbe interactions (e.g.,www.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |1“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page2—# 2Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingN-ﬁxation, mycorrhizae, and pathogens) and trace gas emissions,notably N 2O and CH 4. Both the conceptual arguments and theresearch to back them up are increasingly well developed for suchprocesses. For example, the ratio of N2O/N 2produced by den-itriﬁcation (Bakken et al., 2012 ;Salles et al., 2012), the rate ofnitriﬁcation and the speed with which it responds to fertiliza-tion ( Isobe et al., 2011), and the sensitivity of methanogenesis toNH4+(Bodelier et al., 2000 ) are all sensitive to the compositionof the community of organisms carrying them out.However, these narrow processes are generally niche players inoverall biogeochemical cycles. They are often important, eitherfor ecosystem functioning (e.g., nitriﬁcation or sulfate reduction)or for global systems (e.g., N2O and CH 4ﬂuxes), but typicallyengage only a small fraction of the total microbial communityand are responsible for a limited portion of the total cycle of theinvolved element. Most microorganisms in soil are aerobic het-erotrophs involved in the “broad” or “aggregate” processes ( sensu ;Schimel et al., 2005 ); these are the processes that are carried out bya wide range of organisms or that we measure as a single processbut are actually the sum of multiple distinct processes (e.g., soilrespiration). Broad processes are responsible for the largest ﬂowsof C in soil systems: decomposition and C storage.In this paper, therefore, we will focus on the microbial role inthese large ﬂows associated with the soil C cycle. We will brieﬂydiscuss our evolving understanding of the nature and causes ofmicrobial diversity in soil to consider the level of phylogeny thatmight deﬁne meaningful functional groups for addressing “who’sthere” questions in C-cycling research. We will then discuss thecircumstances where microbial community structure might regu-late the processing of organic matter (OM) in soil, and some areaswhere we see a particular need for advancing this research.CAUSES AND NATURE OF MICROBIAL DIVERSITY IN SOILMicrobial diversity in soil is high. Typical soil samples containmany thousands of individual taxa (commonly described as“oper-ational taxonomic units”; OTU’s) of Bacteria, Archaea, and Fungi.Some estimates suggest there can be more than 106individualspecies-level OTUs in a single soil ( Fierer et al., 2007). This posestwo central, but related, questions to microbial ecologists: howthere can be such great diversity, and does it have any functionalsigniﬁcance? (Prosser, 2012).Classical theories of biodiversity are grounded in the conceptof the niche and competitive exclusion: two species cannot stablycoexist in a single niche. Thus, each species must have some func-tional differentiation ( Clark, 2010). Niche-based theory, however,struggles with the high biodiversity of plants, which compete fora limited suite of resources (light, water, mineral nutrients); yetthere may be hundreds of species within some habitats.T o explain such anomalous patterns of high biodiversity, alter-native ideas have developed. Neutral theory argues that species cancoexist within a niche when the variation in ﬁtness among indi-viduals is as great as among species ( Hubbell, 2001 ); but speciescan also coexist when competition among individuals is as intenseas among species (Clark, 2010; Clark et al., 2011; Beckage et al.,2012). Such dynamics allow functionally overlapping taxa to coex-ist, especially when the environment is highly variable, and whenorganisms are sessile; conditions that likely hold true for manysoil microbes (Sloan et al., 2006 ;Dumbrell et al., 2010 ;Fierer andLennon, 2011; Prosser, 2012).Growing evidence suggests that niche and functional differen-tiation explain patterns of diversity at high levels of microbialphylogeny (e.g., families and phyla) and is associated withlife-history strategies (Fierer et al., 2007; Philippot et al., 2010).However, it has been hard to identify meaningful functional dif-ferentiation within more ﬁnely deﬁned groups (e.g., within genera;Philippot et al., 2010; Prosser, 2012). This conclusion, if true,will affect how we study microbial community composition; forexample, how deeply to sequence communities to analyze theirstructure in terms of ecologically meaningful groups. It takes farfewer sequences to quantify a community to family than to species(Barberán et al., 2012 ).In soil, organisms must adapt to a complex array of substrates,physical/chemical conditions, and biotic interactions, each ofwhich may affect community com position. Some organisms spe-cialize on particular substrates; for example, fungi that grow beston sucrose vs. cellulose vs. lignin vs. tannin–protein complexes(Hanson et al., 2008). In other cases, organisms appear to respondto speciﬁc environmental variables. For example, O2(Bodegomet al., 2001 ), moisture ( Lennon et al., 2012 ), pH (Fierer and Jack-son, 2006) and even varying levels of these parameters ( DeAngeliset al., 2010 ) can select for speciﬁc organisms. In some cases, thisselection operates at high phylogenetic levels – e.g., pH controls therelative growth of fungi vs. bacteria (Rousk et al., 2009 ). In othercases, selection operates at family or genus. For example, within thephylum Glomeromycota (the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi), soilpH may select more strongly than host plant for the speciﬁc taxapresent ( Dumbrell et al., 2010 ); within the bacteria, Clostridiumspp. are obligate anaerobes while most Bacillus spp .are aerobes,yet both genera are closely aligned within the Firmicutes.However, the dominant environments that we can identify insoil are rarely deﬁned by single characteristics (e.g., pH alone),but by combinations of characteristics that organisms must dealwith in synchrony. T o adapt to an environment with a suite ofco-occurring conditions, an organism requires a suite of com-plementary traits – a life history strategy. For example, litterdecomposers (e.g., many basidiomycete fungi) rely on extracellu-lar enzymes to cut plant polymers into oligomers and monomersthat may be taken up and metabolized, but they must also dealwith litter drying out frequently (Schimel et al., 1999 ) and withthe high C/N stoichiometry typical of leaf litter. Some bacteria are“rhizobacteria”that appear to depend on speciﬁc exudates releasedby plant roots (DeAngelis et al., 2009 ;Remenant et al., 2009 ) andare adapted to the complex environment of the rhizosphere ( Bertinet al., 2003 ). The Acidobacteria appear to be stress tolerant olig-otrophs (Fierer et al., 2007, 2011) while the Bacteroidetes and theβ-Proteobacteria appear to be copiotrophs that require adequatemoisture (Lennon et al., 2012).Evolving a successful life history strategy implies deep evo-lutionary patterns and may explain why we observe meaningfulfunctional groups or guilds of microbes, and that they are deﬁnedprimarily at high phylogenetic levels – families or phyla rather thanat species or genera ( Moorhead and Sinsabaugh, 2006 ;Fierer et al.,2007; Philippot et al., 2010; Follows and Dutkiewicz, 2011 ). Forexample, the ability to retain high levels of rRNA through droughtFrontiers in Microbiology |T errestrial Microbiology September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |2“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page3—# 3Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingand to respond quickly to rewetting appears to be a function ofbacterial phylum, with Actinobacteria and Verrucomicrobia beingrapid responders, while Firmicutes were intermediate; Proteobac-terial responses however differed at the class level ( Placella et al.,2012). At the species level, there generally appears to be substantialfunctional redundancy (Prosser, 2012).This conclusion is reinforced by the ubiquity of horizontalgene transfer (HGT) among bacteria. HGT allows organisms totransfer the genes to carry out speciﬁc processes ( Kurland et al.,2003). However, HGT is most common among closely relatedtaxa (Kurland et al., 2003 ), and for pathways that are simple andrequire few enzymes. Thus, HGT is unlikely to break down func-tional barriers at high levels of phylogenetic difference and so isunlikely to transfer major life-history strategies that require com-plex gene networks or rearranging core physiological pathways(Kurland et al., 2003 ). For example, while the genes for nitroge-nase appears to have been transferred across taxa multiple times(Falkowski et al., 2008 ), transferring the full suite of genes requiredto form N-ﬁxing nodules in legumes appears to have happenedperhaps twice in history ( Chen et al., 2003 ). Denitriﬁcation hasspread widely across the bacterial world because it requires onlya slight modiﬁcation to the terminal end of the electron trans-port chain, branching electrons off from cytochrome bto one ofseveral nitrogen reductases. It is an easy physiology to maintainas an alternate to aerobic respiration. In contrast, because theredox potential for sulfate reduction is so much higher than thatof O2, organisms cannot merely insert sulfate reductase in placeof cytochrome o; sulfate reducers have an entirely different elec-tron transport system ( Rabus et al., 2006), making it difﬁcult foran aerobe to become a SO=4reducer through HGT. The ability tocarry out speciﬁc biodegradation reactions has been transferredfrequently (Liang et al., 2012 ), but a rhizobacterium is not likelyto become a litter decomposer overnight.M u c hs o i ld i v e r s i t ym a ya c t u a l l yr e ﬂ e c tb e t ad i v e r s i t y–ad i v e r -sity of habitats within a landscape, rather than diversity within ahabitat. This argues that soil is really a complex landscape withrepeatable and deﬁnable microhabitats, each of which might havemore constrained diversity. No one considers it surprising thatCalifornia has >3,000 native plant species because the State spansfrom alpine tundra to conifer forests to arid scrubland and desert,each with its own array of species. Does soil have analogous distinctcommunities? Rhizospheres select for discrete and reproduciblecommunities, based on both the chemical nature of plant rhizode-posits (Paterson et al., 2007 ;DeAngelis et al., 2009 ;Dennis et al.,2010) and the physical environment created by roots (e.g., alteredO2, pH, and water availability; da Rocha et al., 2009; Hinsingeret al., 2009 ). Soil aggregates may also select for speciﬁc microbialgroups; for example, Acidobacteria may be common in macroag-gregates but not the inner microaggregate ( Mummey et al., 2006).Communities may also vary based on the size pores they inhabit(Ruamps et al., 2011 ).However, even if physical structure does not create repeateddeﬁned habitats that select for speciﬁc communities analogousto grassland or alpine plant communities, the physical com-plexity of the microbial landscape and a lack of connectivitybetween pores may reduce competitive interactions among taxaand allow greater overall diversity ( Görres et al., 1999; Dechesneet al., 2008 ) analogously to how different valleys within a singlemountain range may have somewhat different ﬂora. Within a sin-gle soil, decreasing pore connectivity by reducing water contentcan increase bacterial species richness ( Carson et al., 2010 ). Westill only poorly understand how soil structure creates habitatsand niches and how it regulates interactions to control diversityand community composition. This remains an important researcharea (Schmidt et al., 2011 ;Dungait et al., 2012).Questions remain, however, about how many distinct nichescan exist in soil, and about the level of phylogenetic resolutionat which meaningful niche selection and partitioning acts. As weexplore the functional signiﬁcance of community composition,we need to further develop our understanding of the nature ofmicrobial diversity and the phylogenetic levels at which distinctlife-history strategies emerge and how these translate into mean-ingful microbial functional groups and thence into meaningfulfunctions. We also need to better understand the “microbial land-scape” and how the physical structuring of the soil system interactswith microbial communities to regulate the processes that controlecosystem functioning.CONSEQUENCES OF SOIL COMMUNITY COMPOSITIONAs different groups of microorganisms have distinct functionaltraits with the potential to inﬂuence the processes they carryout (e.g., exoenzyme producers vs. “cheaters”; Allison, 2005), itraises the question of where and how those differences might beexpressed in the environment. Just because organisms’ traits differdoes not mean that they necessarily function differently. Thereare several necessary conditions for soil microbial communitycomposition to affect ecological processes.1. Organisms must differ in their functional traits.2. Biological reactions must be either:a. The rate limiting step in a reaction sequence or,b. The fate-controlling step – i.e., at a branch point thatchannels substrates into pathways with different fates.The ﬁrst criterion is the basis of the concept of “physiologicallybroad” within “broad vs. narrow” theory: if all organisms carryout a process in the same way it can not matter which is active forprocess function. Community composition can only affect pro-cesses if organisms vary in how or when they function ( Schimel,1995; Allison and Martiny, 2008 ).Even if the organisms present in a community do vary in theirfunctional characteristics, being different is not enough to controlthe dynamics of C cycling. The organismal biology must also bewhat controls the process – either in terms of how fast a reactionproceeds or where it proceeds to: what are the products.RATE LIMITING STEP: CATABOLISM VS. ACCESS?Most OM transformations involve multiple steps with differentinherent kinetics. For microbial community composition to playa role in controlling such a transformation, the slowest, rate limit-ing step, must be biological. In soil, that is not necessarily the case;rather abiotic processes can be rate-limiting ( Kemmitt et al., 2008 ).For example, in dry and sunny ecosystems, photodegradationof aboveground litter can potentially oxidize plant-C all the wayto CO2(Austin and Vivanco, 2006 ). Photodegradation, however,www.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |3“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page4—# 4Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclinggenerally accounts for only a limited amount of litter breakdown(Brandt et al., 2010 ). The more common way for abiotic processesto regulate OM turnover is through physical mechanisms that limitmicrobial access to substrate (Stevenson, 1982 ;Pingnatello, 1999 ;Kemmitt et al., 2008 ;Dungait et al., 2012). Thus, in consideringthe potential role of microbial community composition in a bio-geochemical process, the ﬁrst question is whether microbes havephysical access to the substrate ( Figure 1).In fresh unprotected detritus, microbial access is not generallya constraint on decomposition. The exception is wood; it can takesome time for fungal hyphae to penetrate into a log ( Barker, 2008).In mineral soils, however, the situation is different. Mineral soilscontain the bulk of OM in the total soil proﬁle, and possibly inan entire ecosystem (Jobbágy and Jackson, 2000 ). Much of thisis in protected forms, either occluded in aggregates or sorbed onmineral surfaces ( Figure 1; Krull et al., 2003). The rate at whichthis C can be metabolized is limited by microbes’ ability to accessit (Six et al., 2004; John et al., 2005 ). The importance of physi-cal protection has long been recognized as a control on soil OM(SOM) turnover ( Y oo et al., 2011), but increasingly researchershave been recognizing the role of physical space and the structureof the “microbial landscape” as a speciﬁc control on the dynamicsof microbial communities and of their function as well ( Dungaitet al., 2012 ).Microbes in mineral soils are constrained by the pore networksthat they live in ( Y oung and Ritz, 2005; Donnell et al., 2007 ). Assoils dry, bacteria become effectively immobile ( Wang and Or,2010) and must rely on diffusion to supply resources. Y et, soil isa “sticky” environment, and substrate diffusion can be slowed orprevented when molecules interact with electrically charged clayparticles or OM that coats particles (Carrington et al., 2012 ). Inother words, life in soil is like life in a chromatography column. Theinteractions of microbes and substrates with the physical matrixregulates how, or even whether, soil C is utilized; the critical pro-cesses are sorption/desorption, diffusion, and transport ( Figure 1;Ekschmitt et al., 2005 ).For example, in a California grassland soil, Xiang et al. (2008)showed that in deep soils (1 meter), multiple dry/wet cyclesincreased total respiration and microbial biomass by more than500%; the C respired came from a pool with an estimatedFIGURE 1 |Microbial C cycling: the relative roles of physical access to soil C pools and of microbial allocation patterns in regulating overall soil Cdynamics.Frontiers in Microbiology |T errestrial Microbiology September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |4“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page5—# 5Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingturnover time of 600–800 years ( Schimel et al., 2011 ). This poolof chemically labile OM was only metabolized following rewettingeither because rewetting caused it to desorb, or because the ﬂowof water redistributed C and so overcame diffusion limitations.A meta-analysis of studies evaluating microbial respirationresponses to water stress ( Manzoni et al., 2012 ) showed that acrossa wide range of soils, the relationship between water potentialand relative respiration is linear with a consistent threshold valueat which respiration effectively stops (ca. −14 MPa); this valuewas similar to “the water potentials where soil diffusion becomesimpaired.” They concluded that the only mechanism that couldreasonably explain the observed relationship was diffusion controlon substrate supply.In contrast, when aggregates occlude organic detritus ( Sixet al., 2004 ), two steps are required for microbes to process thematerial – ﬁrst a physical step of aggregate disruption, and thenpossibly a second step in which exoenzymes break up the poly-mers ( Navarro-García et al., 2011 ). The aggregate disruption stepstill limits overall metabolism of the material, but once that stepis overcome, there may still be a delay before material is processedand metabolized.The conclusion that OM breakdown in mineral soils is notlimited by the catabolic capacity of the OM, but rather physicalfactors that limit microbial access to it, is reinforced by our chang-ing understanding of the chemical structure of SOM. The classicalmodel of SOM was based on humic/fulvic acids, and what mightbe described as the “snowﬂake” theory of SOM, in which humicmaterials were thought to be large polymers ( Sutton and Sposito,2005), molecules so complex it was possible no two were identical.In such a model, molecules require extracellular enzymes to frag-ment them, but with no repeated structures, enzymes could notbe high afﬁnity “latch-and-key” hydrolytic enzymes but insteadmust be non-speciﬁc oxidative “shotgun” enzymes that producehigh-energy radicals or peroxides. Thus, microbes would rely onchance to generate fragments that they can take up and metabolize(Stevenson, 1982 ). In this vision, SOM molecules are inherentlyresistant and dependent on specialized exoenzymes; decomposi-tion is therefore potentially sensitive to the organisms involved,and whether they have the necessary traits to be able to processhumic molecules.The old humic model of SOM, however, is increasingly con-sidered obsolete ( Schmidt et al., 2011 ), and is being replaced bya conceptual model in which SOM is made up of aggregatesof small, but chemically deﬁned molecules ( Sutton and Spos-ito, 2005; Schmidt et al., 2011 ). These small molecules can alsoform layers on clay surfaces, leading to a model that has beencalled the “onion layering” model ( Sollins et al., 2006 ). In this newmodel, individual constituent molecules are small enough thatthey can be taken up by microorganisms and are often simpleenough that they can be channeled into metabolic pathways thatare common among microbes. There should therefore be a lotof redundancy among microbes’ ability to use such compounds,making it unlikely that their metabolism would be limited by alack of appropriate enzymes. Y et, the bulk mineral-phase carbonin soils is frequently thousands of years old ( Trumbore, 2009 ).Because such long turnover times cannot be explained by chemicalrecalcitrance (Dungait et al., 2012), they are unlikely to result frombiological constraints and are presumably insensitive to microbialcommunity composition.FATE CONTROLLING STEP: ALLOCATIONAlthough we argue that for the protected OM in mineral soils, thecomposition of the microbial community is not important in con-trolling the rate at which SOM is processed, that does not meancommunity composition is not important in the fateof this mate-rial. While a molecule’s accessibility to a microbe is controlled byphysical processes, once a microbe has taken it up, its fate is entirelyunder the control of that organism ( Figure 1). Ultimately there-fore, while catabolic potentials have limited role in controlling theturnover of mineral SOM, anabolic processes are unquestionablyimportant ( Liang et al., 2011 ). What do microbes do with the car-bon they access? How do they allocate it? How do microbial Ctransformations further affect the composition of SOM? Thesearesensitive to microbial community structure.The sensitivity of SOM turnover to anabolism is recognizedimplicitly even in large-scale biogeochemical models; althoughthese models often lack any microbial carbon pool, and even whensuch a pool exists it is usually just a C reservoir, rather than adriver of decomposition ( Manzoni and Porporato, 2009 ). In thesemodels, when C moves from one pool to another, some is lostas CO2; the proportion of C-moved relative to C-lost is essen-tially equivalent to carbon use efﬁciency (CUE). In physiology,CUE is the fraction of substrate that is taken up that is assim-ilated immediately into microbial biomass ( Allison et al., 2010).With simple compounds, the immediate CUE – usually measuredby a short-term assay with an isotopically labeled substrate – ismore a function of molecular structure than microbial communitycomposition ( Sugai and Schimel, 1993 ). The magnitude of CUE,however, is a function of time and physiological condition; stressedmicrobes can have a higher maintenance energy demand whichfunctionally reduces CUE ( Allison et al., 2010). Thus, how CUEand C-turnover respond to stress may be a function of microbiallife history strategy and stress tolerance.Microbes, however, do more with substrate than just convertit to “biomass.” Rather, they synthesize a variety of products thataffect the functioning of ecosystems. A select few of these include:A. Extracellular enzymesB. Extracellular polysaccharidesC. Cell wall polymers: amino sugar-based peptidoglycan andchitinD. Stress response compounds: osmolytes, cryoprotectants, chap-erones etc. ( Schimel et al., 2007 ).The fate of each group of compounds is different in soil, and pat-terns of allocation and production vary across microorganisms(Harris, 1981; Lennon et al., 2012). For example, the microbialproducts present in decomposing aspen litter differed dramaticallywith the site the litter was decomposed in (i.e., microbial inocu-lum), even though decomposition rates did not differ signiﬁcantly(Wallenstein et al., 2010). Substantial differences among allocationpatterns are associated with microbes’ life-history strategies andhence with their phylogeny. Further, the ways in which microbesallocate C can inﬂuence soil structure and function and so altermicrobial habitats and overall soil functioning.www.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |5“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page6—# 6Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingExtracellular enzymesFor those organisms that rely on detritus (plant, animal, or micro-bial) for their resource supply, extracellular enzymes are requiredto break down polymers ( Sinsabaugh, 1994). Although severalsimple theoretical models of deco mposition include a singleenzyme pool (e.g., Schimel and Weintraub, 2003), in reality a suiteof different enzymes are required, including substrate-speciﬁcenzymes targeting C, N, and P (e.g., cellulolytic, proteolytic, andphosphatase), and non-speciﬁc oxidative enzymes such as lac-case and peroxidase ( Caldwell, 2005; Sinsabaugh et al., 2009). Forexoenzyme-producing decomposers, enzymes may be the ﬁrst pri-ority for C-allocation to ensure resource supply ( Schimel andWeintraub, 2003). The overall microbial community is able toshift allocation among these different groups of enzymes to matchproduction to resource demand; enzymes are selectively producedto increase the supply of the most limiting element ( Sinsabaughand Moorhead, 1994 ;Sinsabaugh et al., 2009) and to target themost available substrates (Sistla and Schimel, 2012 ). It remainsunclear how much of this is due to physiological plasticity ofindividual organisms or reﬂects shifts in the composition of themicrobial community. The products of exoenzyme breakdownbecome available to other organisms including other microbes,so called “cheaters” ( Allison, 2005) or “opportunists” (Moorheadand Sinsabaugh, 2006), and to plant roots (Schimel and Ben-nett, 2004 ). Some microbial groups are dominant producers (e.g.,Basidiomycetes) while cheaters appear to dominate in groups suchas the β-Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes ( Fierer et al., 2007).Extracellular polysaccharidesAnother important class of extracellular materials is polysaccha-rides ( Holden, 2011; Sutherland, 2001). Some microorganisms canembed themselves in a matrix of extracellular polymeric materials(EPS) that are mostly polysaccharide but also contain DNA andprotein ( Or et al., 2007 ;Jiao et al., 2010 ;Holden, 2011). EPS ishygroscopic ( Chenu, 1993 ;Henao and Mazeau, 2009), facilitat-ing prolonged cellular hydration and nutrient resupply in dryingsoils (Or et al., 2007 ). EPS can bridge between microbes and theirsubstrates and allow them to survive in dry soils. EPS can also pro-tect exoenzymes ( Sutherland, 2001; Holden, 2011), and can eitherpromote ( Chenu and Roberson, 1996 ) or constrain ( Holden et al.,1997) C diffusion to microbes. EPS can alter soil structure tomediate water retention ( Chenu and Roberson, 1996 ), hydraulicconductivity ( Henao and Mazeau, 2009; Rosenzweig et al., 2009),and aggregate structure (Roberson et al., 1995; Park et al., 2007 ).By promoting aggregate formation, microbes can create favorablegrowth environments, either in the interior of macroaggregates,which may have increased water content, proximity to substrates,and physical protection from predators ( Görres et al., 1999; Neheret al., 1999 ;Six et al., 2006), or in macropores that offer easieraccess to diffusing substrate ( Ruamps et al., 2011 ). Aggregate inte-riors, however, can also be a constrained growth environmentwhen accessible substrates are depleted, or if intra-aggregate poresize is small enough to prevent colonization (Chenu et al., 2001 ).Microorganisms’ability to produce EPS appears correlated withtheir ability to grow at low water potentials ( Lennon et al., 2012)and so appears to be part of a deeply rooted life-history strat-egy that includes the ability to tolerate low O2(associated withbeing in a saturated bioﬁlm) and a longer lag before startingexponential growth. This strategy is concentrated in a subset ofphyla, notably the Firmicutes ( Lennon et al., 2012). Microorgan-isms can also produce other chemicals that directly affect soilconditions and structure, including a variety of proteins suchas hydrophobins, glomalin (produced by arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi in the Glomales), and chaplins (produced by Actinomycetes;Rillig et al., 2007 ).Cell wall polymersWithin a cell, microbes also have the ability to shift resource allo-cation among different pools; these allocation patterns affect thefunctioning of the cell itself and potentially that of the overall soilsystem. Cell wall materials are thought to be potentially impor-tant sources of C and N for long-term stabilization ( Liang et al.,2011). The proportion of chitin, peptidoglycan, lipids, and othercell-wall and outer-membrane components depend on the ratioof Fungi:Bacteria:Archaea, as well as the proportion of Gram-positive:Gram-negative bacteria within the bacterial community.Amino sugars, which both bacteria and fungi use as componentsof their cell walls (peptidoglycan and chitin, respectively) becomeimportant constituents in soil organic nitrogen pools ( Dai et al.,2002; Kögel-Knabner, 2002 ;Joergensen and Wichern, 2008), yetare produced differentially by the different groups of organisms.Stress response compoundsIt has been argued that microorganisms physiologically acclimateto survive stresses such as low water potential or freezing byaccumulating cytoplasmic constituents such as osmolytes or cry-oprotectants (Schimel et al., 2007 ). These molecules would have tobe lost or transformed rapidly when the stress ended (rewetting orthaw). While there are consistently ﬂushes of C and N upon rewet-ting and thaw, recent research suggests that in soil the “osmolytetheory” for how microbes tolerate drought may be incorrect ( Bootet al., 2012 ;Kakumanu et al., 2012) and that the substrate ﬂushesmay be instead be associated with mobilization of non-biomassSOM (Miller et al., 2005 ;Xiang et al., 2008 ). This may not be thecase for freezing, however, as the organisms that are active at lowtemperature appear distinct fro m those active under warmer con-ditions (McMahon et al., 2011) and the nature of OM processingand nutrient balance shifts between summer and winter ( Schimeland Mikan, 2005). Soil freezing may select for anaerobes ( Milleret al., 2007 ). How the production of such material varies acrossthe microbial world remains unclear.SCALING UP IN TIME: DO MICROBIAL COMMUNITYINFLUENCES SHIFT WITH TIME SCALE?The importance of microbial community composition may varywith the time scale being considered, but not necessarily in an intu-itive way. Generally, we assume that scales of time and space arelinked – it makes no sense to think about the global carbon cyclethis second, nor does it make sense to ask what carbon in a singlesquare centimeter will be doing over the next century. Rather weassume that questions framed at ﬁne spatial scales will also tar-get short time scales – studies on soil cores rarely last longer thanmonths. In considering spatial scales, Schimel (1995) suggestedthat there should be a continuum in the inﬂuence of microbialFrontiers in Microbiology |T errestrial Microbiology September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |6“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page7—# 7Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingcommunity structure, with maximal inﬂuence at the ﬁnest spa-tial scales, with inﬂuence fading out at progressively larger spatialscales. We suggest that this is reasonable, but the same logic mightnot apply to time scales.As the scale of focus changes, the nature of the processes thatare most relevant change, as do the intellectual models that weuse for considering them. For example at the pore-scale, wefocus on patterns of microbial growth and substrate diffusion;reaction-diffusion models are a core intellectual paradigm forunderstanding this scale (Or et al., 2007 ;Holden, 2011); theseemphasize access and catabolism. A new approach in microbialecology is Dynamic Energy Budget modeling, which focuses onhow organisms allocate resources under different environmentalconditions and how that translates into population growth andturnover ( Klanjscek et al., 2012 ). At the ecosystem scale, stud-ies frequently focus on a seasonal to interannual time scale andemphasize plant production and decomposition (the life and deathhistories of plants) – box-and-ﬂow biogeochemical models are thedominant paradigm ( Manzoni and Porporato, 2009 ) and at thisscale it is difﬁcult to show any substantial inﬂuence of microbialcommunity composition on C cycling. Larger scales become thedomain of Earth System models, but these generally have a bio-geochemistry core that is based on ecosystem-scale models ( Clarket al., 2011 ). One might therefore argue that at these larger scales,the speciﬁc dynamics of microbes would be even less important inregulating the key processes. But at the decade-and-up times scalesrelevant to the global climate system, plant production and litterdecomposition become tightly balanced, and overall C storage andloss become increasingly a function of the big, slow pools – e.g.,stabilized OM in the mineral soil ( Jobbágy and Jackson, 2000 ).Thus, to evaluate the processes that control C-sequestration, it isnot the rate of microbial growth or of litter decay that matter most– it is the production of stabilized materials, which are a small frac-tion of the total ( Liang et al., 2011 ). These products result fromspeciﬁc anabolic pathways of microbes and on patterns of micro-bial community composition that are reasonably stable across time(Grandy et al., 2009). Thus, as we focus on understanding soil Cdynamics overlong time-scales, the allo cation patterns of speciﬁcgroups of microbes that regulate the fate of OM in mineral soilsbecomes increasingly important.SCALING UP IN SPACE: WHERE IN THE SOIL ARECOMMUNITY INFLUENCES LIKELY IMPORTANT?We have brieﬂy discussed perspectives on microbial diversity andthe ways it may affect C cycling in soil systems. We have arguedthat our perspectives shift among time scales and speciﬁc pro-cesses, and that the roles of microbial community composition incontrolling these processes shift as well. We also need to considerhow these dynamics play out in different compartments of the soilsystem, because community inﬂuences may act differently amongthem. As a simple breakdown of the dominant zones within thesoil landscape, we can consider (A) rhizosphere, (B) abovegroundlitter, (C) dead roots, and (D) mineral soil (Figure 2). We hypoth-esize that the composition of the microbial community plays asigniﬁcant role in controlling C cycling in the rhizosphere and inorganic detritus (litter or dead roots), but for distinctly differentreasons. In the rhizosphere, microbial community composition isregulated by the speciﬁc substrates and chemical signals released bythe plant root, and by the speciﬁc physical and biotic environmentcreated by the plant root in terms of O2, pH, and other chemicalvariables (Jaeger et al.,1999 ;Hinsinger et al.,2009). These select fora distinct group of microbes, some of which act as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria or as pathogens and so have powerfulfeedbacks to plant growth and C cycling. In physically unprotectedorganic detritus, chemical structures remain complex and speciﬁcto the plant, microbe, or animal that produced them; exoenzymebreakdown is necessary for microbes to metabolize them. Thus,their breakdown remains under biological control and sensitiveto the speciﬁc identities of the decomposers present. Extensivework has been done on aboveground litter, linking chemistry andorganisms, and decomposition dynamics. The community presentin litter alters decomposition kinetics, often the community nativeto the litter’s home site is more effective than communities fromother sites; the “home-ﬁeld advantage” ( Sinsabaugh and Moor-head, 1994; Schimel et al., 1999 ;Aneja et al., 2004; Craine et al.,2007; Strickland et al., 2009 ;Baumann et al., 2011 ;Freschet et al.,2011; Baldrian et al., 2012 ;Schneider et al., 2012 ).In contrast, comparatively little research has been done on deadroots. This is surprising because typically at least half of ecosys-tem net primary productivity goes into belowground structures(Chapin III et al., 2002 ), and root litter is likely a greater sourceof stabilized soil C than is aboveground litter (Rasse et al., 2005 ;Schmidt et al., 2011 ;Carrington et al., 2012 ). The chemistry of rootlitter differs from that of foliar litter ( Harmon et al., 2009), anddiffers in decomposition dynamics. For example, while high C/Nfoliar litter inevitably shows a phase of N-immobilization early indecomposition, this is not the case for roots, which begin to min-eralize N in parallel with mass loss ( Parton et al., 2007). Relativelyfew studies have evaluated the microbiology of root decompositioncompared to those on leaf litter (e.g., Fisk et al., 2010 ;Baumannet al., 2011 ). Because root litter is such an important source of soilC and because so little has been done on the relationships betweenchemistry and microbiology in dead roots, we consider this to bethe most important compartment for microbial study in the soilsystem.In mineral soils, as we have discussed, the inﬂuence of micro-bial community composition on the rate of breakdown of SOMis likely to be limited. Rather, community composition may morestrongly reﬂect the physical environment and substrate access pat-terns. However, the distribution of major phylogenetic groupsmay control the fate of that material. Here, we need continuedstudy on SOM chemistry to better understand the factors that reg-ulate microbial access to substrate and we need increased study onmicrobial processing and production of new materials to betterunderstand how they regulate the physical structure of soil andthe long-term fate of soil C.CONCLUSIONIn their effects on soil C cycling, the inﬂuences of microbial com-munities appear to be associated with life history patterns that aredeeply rooted in microbial phylogeny – functional groups appearat the level of families or phyla rather than species or genera. Evenaccepting that soil microbes have different life history strategiesand comprise different functional groups however, for thosewww.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |7“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page8—# 8Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingFIGURE 2 |The main zones in soil, the characteristics that regulatemicrobial functioning within each zone, and the dominant guilds ofmicrobes present. In litter and the rhizosphere (outlined in green), microbialcommunity composition likely affects both the rate of processes and the fateof C. In mineral soil (outlined in brown), microbial community compositionlikely only controls the fate of C. In dead roots, community compositionprobably regulates both rate and fate, but little research has been done onthis compartment.differences to inﬂuence ecosystem C dynamics, those organismsmust carry out steps in OM processing that are rate-limiting inoverall OM breakdown, which requires that they have physicalaccess to the material, or they must control the fate of that material,synthesizing alternative products with important characteristicsfor ecosystem function. The speciﬁc compounds produced likelyaffect the nature of soil processes most strongly at either the short-est or the longest time scales, but least strongly at the interannual“ecosystem” scale that dominates much biogeochemical study. Inthe rhizosphere and in detritus, community composition likelyinﬂuences C-cycling rates, while in the mineral soil, it may pri-marily inﬂuence the fate of C, while physical processes controllingmicrobial access to C regulate turnover rate. The largest uncer-tainty about the role of community composition probably existsfor dead roots. These may constitute the largest source of C thatis sequestered in the soil and so represent the biggest long-terminput yet is the least studied part of the system.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank Dr. Patricia Holden for contributing to the thinking thatled to this paper, and to three reviewers who offered valuable crit-icism and suggestion that substantially improved this paper. Wethank the U.S. National Science Foundation Ecosystem ScienceProgram for supporting this effort, both through grants from theEcosystem Science Program (DEB-0444712; DEB-1145875) andfor supporting the Enzymes in the Environment Research Coor-dination Network, which supported the workshop “IncorporatingEnzymes and Microbial Physiology into Biogeochemical Models”in Ft. Collins Co in May 2012; participants at the workshop offeredvaluable insights.REFERENCESAllison, S. D. (2005). Cheaters, dif-fusion and nutrients constraindecomposition by microbialenzymes in spatially structuredenvironments. Ecol. Lett. 8, 626–635.Allison, S. D., and Martiny, J. B.H. (2008). Resistance, resilience,and redundancy in microbialcommunities. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U.S.A. 105, 11512–11519Allison, S. D., Wallenstein, M. D., andBradford, M. A. (2010). Soil-carbonresponse to warming dependent onmicrobial physiology. Nat. Geosci. 3,336–340.Aneja, M. K., Sharma, S., Munch, J. C.,and Schloter, M. (2004). RNA ﬁnger-p r i n t i n g–an e wm e t h o dt os c r e e nf o rFrontiers in Microbiology |T errestrial Microbiology September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |8“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page9—# 9Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingdifferences in plant litter degradingmicrobial communities. J. Microbiol.Methods 59, 223–231.Austin, A. T., and Vivanco, L.(2006). Plant litter decompositionin a semi-arid ecosystem controlledby photodegradation. Nature 442,555–558.Bakken, L. R., Bergaust, L., Liu, B., andFrostegård, A. (2012). Regulation ofdenitriﬁcation at the cellular level: aclue to the understanding of N2Oemissions from soils. Philos. Trans. R.Soc. Lond. B Biol. Sci. 367, 1226–1234.Baldrian, P ., Kolaˇ rík, M., Stursová,M., Kopecký, J., Valášková, V .,Vˇetrovský, T., Zifˇ cáková, L., Snajdr,J., Rídl, J., Vlˇ cek, C., and Voˇ ríšková,J. (2012). Active and total micro-bial communities in forest soil arelargely different and highly stratiﬁedduring decomposition. ISME J. 6,248–258.Barberán, A., Bates, S. T., Casamayor,E. O., and Fierer, N. (2012). Usingnetwork analysis to explore co-occurrence patterns in soil microbialcommunities. ISME J. 6, 343–351.Barker, J. S. (2008). Decomposition ofDouglas-ﬁr coarse woody debris inresponse to differing moisture con-tent and initial heterotrophic colo-nization. For. Ecol. Manage. 255,598–604.Baumann, K., Marschner, P ., Kuhn, T.K., Smernik, R. J., and Baldock, J. A.(2011). Microbial community struc-ture and residue chemistry duringdecomposition of shoots and rootsof young and mature wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.) in sand. Eur. J. Soil Sci.62, 666–675.Beckage, B., Gross, L., Platt, W., Godsoe,W., and Simberloff, D. (2012). Indi-vidual variation and weak neutralityas determinants of forest diversity.Front. Biogeogr. 3, 145–155.Bertin, C., Y ang, X. H., and Weston, L. A.(2003). The role of root exudates andallelochemicals in the rhizosphere.Plant Soil 256, 67–83.Bodegom, P . V ., Stams, F., Mollema, L.,and Leffelaar, P . (2001). Methane oxi-dation and the competition for oxy-gen in the rice rhizosphere methaneoxidation and the competition foroxygen in the rice rhizosphere. Appl.Eviron. Microbiol. 67, 3586–3597.Bodelier, P . L., Roslev, P ., Henckel,T., and Frenzel, P . (2000). Stimula-tion by ammonium-based fertilizersof methane oxidation in soil aroundrice roots. Nature 403, 421–424.Boot, C. M., Schaeffer, S. M., andSchimel, J. P . (2012). Static osmolytepools in bacterial biomass during sea-sonal drought in a California grass-land. Soil Biol. Biochem. (in press).Braker, G., and Conrad, R. (2011).Diversity, structure, and size of N2O-producing microbial communities insoil – what matters for their func-tioning? Adv. Appl. Microbiol. 75,33–70.Brandt, L. A., King, J. Y., Hobbie, S. E.,Milchunas, D. G., and Sinsabaugh, R.L. (2010). The role of photodegrada-tion in surface litter decompositionacross a grassland ecosystem pre-cipitation gradient. Ecosystems 13,765–781.Caldwell, B. A. (2005). Enzyme activ-ities as a component of soil biodi-versity: a review. Pedobiologia 49,637–644.Carrington, E. M., Hernes, P . J., Dyda,R. Y., Plante, A. F., and Six, J. (2012).Biochemical changes across a carbonsaturation gradient: lignin, cutin, andsuberin decomposition and stabiliza-tion in fractionated carbon pools. SoilBiol. Biochem. 47, 179–190.Carson, J. K., Gonzalez-Quinones, V .,Murphy, D. V ., Hinz, C., Shaw, J. A.,and Gleeson, D. B. (2010). Low poreconnectivity increases bacterial diver-sity in soil. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.76, 3936–3942.Chapin, F. S. III, Matson, P . A., andMooney, H. A. (2002). Principles ofT errestrial Ecosystem Ecology .N e wY ork: Springer-Verlag.Chen, W.-M., Moulin, L., Bon-temps, C., Vandamme, P ., Bena,G., and Boivin-Masson, C. (2003).Legume symbiotic nitrogen ﬁxationbyβ-Proteobacteria is widespread innature. J. Bacteriol. 185, 7266–7272.Chenu, C. (1993). Clay- or sand-poly-saccharide associations as modelsfor the interface between micro-organisms and soil: water relatedproperties and microstructure. Geo-derma 56, 143–156.Chenu, C., Hassink, J., and Bloem, J.(2001). Short-term changes in thespatial distribution of microorgan-isms in soil aggregates as affected byglucose addition. Biol. Fertil. Soils 34,349–356.Chenu, C., and Roberson, E. B.(1996). Diffusion of glucose inmicrobial extracellular polysaccha-ride as affected by water potential.Soil Biol. Biochem. 28, 877–884.Clark, D. B., Mercado, L. M., Sitch,S., Jones, C. D., Gedney, N., Best,M. J., Pryor, M., Rooney, G. G.,Essery, R. L. H., Blyth, E., Boucher,O., Harding, R. J., Huntingford,C., and Cox, P . M. (2011). Thejoint UK land environment simu-lator (JULES), model description –Part 2: carbon ﬂuxes and vegeta-tion dynamics. Geosci. Model Dev. 4,701–722.Clark, J. S. (2010). Individuals andthe variation needed for high speciesdiversity in forest trees. Science 327,1129–1132.Clark, J. S., Bell, D. M., Hersh, M. H.,Kwit, M. C., Moran, E., Salk, C., Stine,A., Valle, D., and Zhu, K. (2011).Individual-scale variation, species-scale differences: inference needed tounderstand diversity. Ecol. Lett. 14,1273–1287.Craine, J. M., Morrow, C., and Fierer, N.(2007). Microbial nitrogen limitationincreases decomposition. Ecology 88,2105–2113.da Rocha, U. N., van Overbeek, L.,and van Elsas, J. D. (2009). Explo-ration of hitherto-uncultured bac-teria from the rhizosphere. FEMSMicrobiol. Ecol. 69, 313–28Dai, X. Y., Ping, C. L., Hines, M.E., Zhang, X. D., and Zech, W.(2002). Amino sugars in arctic soils.Commun. Soil Sci. Plant Anal. 33,789–805.DeAngelis, K. M., Brodie, E. L., DeSan-tis, T. Z., Andersen, G. L., Lindow,S. E., and Firestone, M. K. (2009).Selective progressive response of soilmicrobial community to wild oatroots. ISME J. 3, 168–178.DeAngelis, K. M., Silver, W. L., Thomp-son, A. W., and Firestone, M.K. (2010). Microbial communitiesacclimate to recurring changes insoil redox potential status. Environ.Microbiol. 12, 3137–3149.Dechesne, A., Or, D., and Smets, B.F. (2008). Limited diffusive ﬂuxes ofsubstrate facilitate coexistence of twocompeting bacterial strains. FEMSMicrobiol. Ecol. 64, 1–8.Dennis, P . G., Miller, A. J., and Hirsch,P . R. (2010). Are root exudates moreimportant than other sources of rhi-zodeposits in structuring rhizospherebacterial communities? FEMS Micro-biol. Ecol. 72, 313–27Donnell, A. G. O., Y oung, I. M., Rush-ton, S. P ., Shirley, M. D., andCrawford, J. W. (2007). Visualiza-tion, modelling and prediction in soilmicrobiology. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 5,689–699.Dumbrell, A. J., Nelson, M., Helga-son, T., Dytham, C., and Fitter, A.H. (2010). Relative roles of nicheand neutral processes in structuringa soil microbial community. ISME J.4, 337–345.Dungait, J. A. J., Hopkins, D. W., Gre-gory, A. S., and Whitmore, A. P .(2012). Soil organic matter turnoveris governed by accessibility not recal-citrance. Glob. Change Biol. 18,1781–1796.Ekschmitt, K., Liu, M., Vetter, S., Fox,O., and Wolters, V . (2005). Strategiesused by soil biota to overcome soilorganic matter stability – why is deadorganic matter left over in the soil?Geoderma 128, 167–176.Falkowski, P . G., Fenchel, T., andDelong, E. F. (2008). The micro-bial engines that drive Earth’s bio-geochemical cycles. Science 320,1034–1039.Fierer, N., Bradford, M. A., and Jackson,R. B. (2007). T oward an ecologicalclassiﬁcation of soil bacteria. Ecology88, 1354–1364.Fierer, N., Grandy, A. S., Six, J., and Paul,E. A. (2009). Searching for unifyingprinciples in soil ecology. Soil Biol.Biochem. 41, 2249–2256.Fierer, N., and Jackson, R. B. (2006). Thediversity and biogeography of soilbacterial communities. Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 103, 626–631.Fierer, N., Lauber, C. L., Ramirez,K.S., Zaneveld, J., Bradford,M. A., and Knight, R. (2011).Comparative metagenomic, phy-logenetic and physiological analy-ses of soil microbial communitiesacross nitrogen gradients. ISME J. 6,1007–1017.Fierer, N., and Lennon, J. T. (2011). Thegeneration and maintenance of diver-sity in microbial communities. Am. J.Bot. 98, 439–448.Fisk, M. C., Fahey, T. J., Sobieraj, J.H., Staniec, A. C., and Crist, T.O. (2010). Rhizosphere disturbanceinﬂuences fungal colonization andcommunity development on deadﬁne roots. Plant Soil 341, 279–293.Follows, M. J., and Dutkiewicz, S.(2011). Modeling diverse communi-ties of marine microbes. Annu. Rev.Mar. Sci. 3, 427–451.Freschet, G. T., Aerts, R., and Cor-nelissen, J. H. C. (2011). Multiplemechanisms for trait effects on lit-ter decomposition: moving beyondhome-ﬁeld advantage with a newhypothesis. J. Ecol. 100, 619–630.Grandy, A. S., Strickland, M. S., Lauber,C. L., Bradford, M. A., and Fierer,N. (2009). The inﬂuence of micro-bial communities, management, andsoil texture on soil organic matterchemistry. Geoderma 150, 278–286.Groffman, P . M., and Bohlen, P .J. (1999). Soil and sediment bio-diversity: cross-system comparisonsand large-scale effects. Bioscience 49,139–148.Görres, J. H., Savin, M. C., Neher, D. A.,and Weicht, T. R. (1999). Grazing ina porous environment: 1. The effectof soil pore structure on C and Nmineralization. Plant Soil 212, 75–83.Hanson, C. A., Allison, S. D., Brad-ford, M. A., Wallenstein, M. D.,and Treseder, K. K. (2008). Fungalwww.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |9“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page 10 — #10Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingtaxa target different carbon sources inforest soil. Ecosystems 11, 1157–1167.Harmon, M. E., Silver, W. L., Fasth, B.,Chen, H., Burke, I. C., Parton, W. J.,Hart, S. C., and Currie, W. S. (2009).Long-term patterns of mass loss dur-ing the decomposition of leaf and ﬁneroot litter: an intersite comparison.Glob. Change Biol. 15, 1320–1338.Harris, R. F. (1981). “Effect of waterpotential on microbial growth andactivity,” in Water Potential Relationsin Soil Microbiology, eds J. F. Parr, W.R. Gardner, and L. F. Elliott (Madison,WI: American Society of Agronomy),23–95.Henao, L. J., and Mazeau, K. (2009).Molecular modelling studies of clay–exopolysaccharide complexes: soilaggregation and water retention phe-nomena. Mater. Sci. Eng. C 29,2326–2332.Hinsinger, P ., Bengough, A. G., Vetter-lein, D., and Y oung, I. M. (2009).Rhizosphere: biophysics, biogeo-chemistry and ecological relevance.Plant Soil 321, 117–152.Holden, P . A. (2011). “How do themicrohabitats framed by soil struc-ture impact soil bacteria and theprocesses that they catalyze?,” in TheArchitecture and Biology of Soils: Lifein Inner Space, eds K. Ritz and I.Y oung (Oxfordshire: CABI), 1–62.Holden, P . A., Hunt, J. R., and Firestone,M. K. (1997). T oluene diffusion andreaction in unsaturated Pseudomonasputida bioﬁlms. Biotechnol. Bioeng.56, 656–670.Hubbell, S. P . (2001). The Uniﬁed Neu-tral Theory of Biodiversity and Bio-geography . Princeton, NJ: PrincetonUniversity Press.Isobe, K., Koba, K., Otsuka, S., andSenoo, K. (2011). Nitriﬁcation andnitrifying microbial communities inforest soils. J. For. Res. 16, 351–362.Jaeger, C. H. I. I. I., Lindow, S. E., Miller,W., Clark, E., and Firestone, M. K.(1999). Mapping of sugar and aminoacid availability in soil around rootswith bacterial sensors of sucrose andtryptophan. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.65, 2685–2690.Jiang, L. (2007). Negative selec-tion effects suppress relationshipsbetween bacterial diversity andecosystem functioning. Ecology 88,1075–1085.Jiao, Y., Cody, G. D., Harding, A. K.,Wilmes, P ., Schrenk, M., Wheeler, K.E., Banﬁeld, J. F., and Thelen, M.P . (2010). Characterization of extra-cellular polymeric substances fromacidophilic microbial bioﬁlms. Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 76, 2916–2922.Jobbágy, E. G., and Jackson, R. B.(2000). The vertical distribution ofsoil organic carbon and its relationsto climate change and vegetation.Ecol. Appl. 10, 423–436.Joergensen, R., and Wichern, F. (2008).Quantitative assessment of the fun-gal contribution to microbial tis-s u ei ns o i l . Soil Biol. Biochem. 40,2977–2991.John, B., Y amashita, T., Ludwig, B., andFlessa, H. (2005). Storage of organiccarbon in aggregate and density frac-tions of silty soils under differenttypes of land use. Geoderma 128,63–79.Kakumanu, M. L., Cantrell, C. L.,and Williams, M. A. (2012). Micro-bial community response to varyingmagnitudes of desiccation in soil: atest of the osmolyte accumulationhypothesis. Soil Biol. Biochem. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.08.014Kemmitt, S. J., Lanyon, C. V ., Waite, I.S., Wen, Q., Addiscott, T. M., Bird, N.R. A., Donnell, A. G. O., and Brookes,P . C. (2008). Mineralization of nativesoil organic matter is not regulatedby the size, activity or composition ofthe soil microbial biomas s–an e wperspective. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40,61–73.Klanjscek, T., Nisbet, R. M., Priester, J.H., and Holden, P . A. (2012). Mod-eling physiological processes thatrelate toxicant exposure and bac-terial population dynamics. PLoSONE 7, e26955. doi: 10.1371/jour-nal.pone.0026955Kögel-Knabner, I. (2002). The macro-molecular organic composition ofplant and microbial residues as inputsto soil organic matter. Soil Biol.Biochem. 34, 139–162.Krull, E. S., Baldock, J. A., andSkjemstad, J. O. (2003). Impor-tance of mechanisms and pro-cesses of the stabilisation of soilorganic matter for modelling car-bon turnover. Funct. Plant Biol. 30,207–222.Kurland, C. G., Canback, B., and Berg,O. G. (2003). Horizontal gene trans-fer: a critical view. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U.S.A. 100, 9658–9662.Lennon, J. T., Aanderud, Z. T.,Lehmkuhl, B. K., and Schoolmaster,Donald R., J. (2012). Mapping theniche space of soil microorganismsusing taxonomy and traits. Ecology 3,1867–1879.Liang, B., Jiang, J., Zhang, J., Zhao,Y., and Li, S. (2012). Horizon-tal transfer of dehalogenase genesinvolved in the catalysis of chlori-nated compounds: evidence and eco-logical role. Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 38,95–110.Liang, C., Cheng, G., Wixon, D. L., andBalser, T. C. (2011). An absorbingMarkov chain approach to under-standing the microbial role in soilcarbon stabilization. Biogeochemistry106, 303–309.Locey, K. J. (2010). Synthesizing tra-ditional biogeography with micro-bial ecology: the importance ofdormancy. J. Biogeogr. 37, 1835–1841.Manzoni, S., and Porporato, A. (2009).Soil carbon and nitrogen mineraliza-tion: theory and models across scales.Soil Biol. Biochem. 41, 1355–1379.Manzoni, S., Schimel, J. P ., and Por-porato, A. (2012). Responses ofsoil microbial communities to water-stress: results from a meta-analysis.Ecology 93, 930–938.McMahon, S. K., Wallenstein, M. D.,and Schimel, J. P . (2011). A cross-seasonal comparison of active andtotal bacterial community composi-tion in Arctic tundra soil using bro-modeoxyuridine labeling. Soil Biol.Biochem. 43, 287–295.Meyer, O. (1993). “Functional groups ofmicroorganisms,” in Biodiversity andEcosystem Function. Ecological Stud-ies 99, eds E.-D. Schultze and H. A.Mooney (Berlin: Springer), 67–96.Miller, A. E., Schimel, J. P ., Meixner,T., Sickman, J. O., and Melack, J. M.(2005). Episodic rewetting enhancescarbon and nitrogen release fromchaparral soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37,2195–2204.Miller, A. E., Schimel, J. P ., Sickman,J. O., Meixner, T., Doyle, A. P ., andMelack, J. M. (2007). Mineralizationresponses at near-zero temperaturesin three alpine soils. Biogeochemistry84, 253–270.Moorhead, D. L., and Sinsabaugh, R. L.(2006). A theoretical model of litterdecay and microbial interaction. Ecol.Monogr. 76, 151–174.Morales, S. E., and Holben, W. E.(2011). Linking bacterial identitiesand ecosystem processes: can “omic”analyses be more than the sum oftheir parts? FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 75,2–16.Mummey, D., Holben, W., Six, J., andStahl, P . (2006). Spatial stratiﬁcationof soil bacterial populations in aggre-gates of diverse soils. Microb. Ecol. 51,404–411.Navarro-García, F., Ángel Casermeiro,M., and Schimel. J. P . (2011). Whenstructure means conservation: effectof aggregate structure in control-ling microbial responses to rewettingevents. Soil Biol. Biochem. 44, 1–8Neher, D., Weicht, T., Savin, M., Görres,J., and Amador, J. (1999). Grazing ina porous environment. 2. Nematodecommunity structure. Plant Soil 212,85–99.Or, D., Smets, B. F., Wraith, J. M.,Dechesne, A., and Freidman, S. P .(2007). Physical constraints affect-ing bacterial habitats and activity inunsaturated porous medi a–ar e v i e w .Adv. Water Res. 30, 1505–1527.Park, E.-J., Sul, W. J., and Smucker,A. J. M. (2007). Glucose addi-t i o n st oa g g r e g a t e ss u b j e c t e dt odrying/wetting cycles promote car-bon sequestration and aggregatestability. Soil Biol. Biochem. 39,2758–2768.Parton, W., Silver, W. L., Burke, I.C., Grassens, L., Harmon, M. E.,Currie, W. S., King, J. Y., Adair,E. C., Brandt, L. A., Hart, S. C.,and Fasth, B. (2007). Global-scalesimilarities in nitrogen release pat-terns during long-term decomposi-tion. Science 315, 361–364.Paterson, E., Gebbing, T., Abel, C., Sim,A., and T elfer, G. (2007). Rhizodepo-sition shapes rhizosphere microbialcommunity structure in organic soil.New Phytol. 173, 600–610.Peay, K. G., Kennedy, P . G., and Bruns,T. D. (2008). Fungal community ecol-ogy: a hybrid beast with a molecularmaster. Bioscience 58, 799–810.Philippot, L., Andersson, S. G. E., Battin,T. J., Prosser, J. I., Schimel, J. P ., Whit-man, W. B., and Hallin, S. (2010). Theecological coherence of high bacterialtaxonomic ranks. Nat. Rev. Microbiol.8, 523–529.Pingnatello, J. J. (1999). The measure-ment ad interpretation of sorptionand desorption rates for organic com-pounds in soil media. Adv. Agron. 69,1–73.Placella, S. A, Brodie, E. L., and Fire-stone, M. K. (2012). Rainfall-inducedcarbon dioxide pulses result fromsequential resuscitation of phyloge-netically clustered microbial groups.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 109,10931–10936Prosser, J. I. (2012). Ecosystem pro-cesses and interactions in a morass ofdiversity. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 81,507–519.Prosser, J. I., Bohannan, B. J. M., Cur-tis, T. P ., Ellis, R. J., Firestone, M.K., Freckleton, R. P ., Green, J. L.,Green, L. E., Killham, K., Lennon,J. J., Osborn, A. M., Solan, M., vander Gast, C. J., and Y oung, J. P . W.(2007). The role of ecological the-ory in microbial ecology. Nat. Rev.Microbiol. 5, 384–392.Rabus, R., Hansen, T. A., and Wid-del, F. (2006). “Dissimilatory sulfate-and sulfur-reducing prokaryotes,” inThe Prokaryotes , eds M. Dworkin, S.Falkow, E. Rosenberg, K.-H. Schleifer,and E. Stackebrandt (New Y ork:Springer), 659–768.Frontiers in Microbiology |T errestrial Microbiology September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |10“fmicb-03-00348” — 2012/9/25 — 1 1:39 — page 1 1 — #1 1Schimel and Schaeffer Microbial control over C cyclingRasse, D. P ., Rumpel, C., and Dignac,M.-F. (2005). Is soil carbon mostlyroot carbon? Mechanisms for a spe-ciﬁc stabilisation. Plant Soil 269,341–356.Reid, A. (2011). Incorporating MicrobialProcesses into Climate Change Models.A report by the American Academy ofMicrobiology, Washington, DC.Remenant, B., Grundmann, G. L., andJocteur-Monrozier, L. (2009). Fromthe micro-scale to the habitat: assess-ment of soil bacterial communitystructure as shown by soil structuredirected sampling. Soil Biol. Biochem.41, 29–36.Rillig, M. C., Caldwell, B. A., Wösten,H. A. B., and Sollins, P . (2007). Roleof proteins in soil carbon and nitro-gen storage: controls on persistence.Biogeochemistry 85, 25–44.Roberson, E. B., Shennan, C., Fire-stone, M. K., and Sarig, S.(1995). Nutritional management ofmicrobial polysaccharide productionand aggregation in an agriculturalsoil. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 59,1587–1594.Rousk, J., Brookes, P . C., and Bååth, E.(2009). Contrasting soil pH effectson fungal and bacterial growth sug-gest functional redundancy in car-bon mineralization. Appl. Environ.Microbiol. 75, 1589–1596.Rosenzweig, R., Shavit, U., and Fur-man, A. (2009). The inﬂuence ofbioﬁlm spatial distribution scenar-ios on hydraulic conductivity ofunsaturated soils. V adose Zone J. 8,1080–1084.Roux-Michollet, D. D., Schimel, J. P .,and Holden, P . A. (2010). Push-ing the limits for amplifying BrdU-labeled DNA encoding 16S rRNA:DNA polymerase as the determin-ing factor. J. Microbiol. Methods 83,312–316.Ruamps, L. S., Nunan, N., and Chenu,C. (2011). Microbial biogeography atthe soil pore scale. Soil Biol. Biochem.43, 280–286.Salles, J. F., Le Roux, X., andPoly, F. (2012). Relating phyloge-netic and functional diversity amongdenitriﬁers and quantifying theircapacity to predict community func-tioning. Front. Microbiol. 3:209. doi:10.3389/fmicb.2012.00209.Schimel, J. (1995). “Ecosystem conse-quences of microbial diversity andcommunity structure,” in Arctic andAlpine Biodiversity: Patterns, Causes,and Ecosystem Consequences ,e d sF .S. Chapin and C. Korner (Berlin:Springer-Verlag), 239–254.Schimel, J. P ., Balser, T. C., andWallenstein, M. (2007). Microbialstress-response physiology and itsimplications for ecosystem function.Ecology 86, 1386–1394.Schimel, J. P ., and Bennett, J. (2004).Nitrogen mineralization: challengesof a changing paradigm. Ecology 85,591–602.Schimel, J. P ., Bennett, J., and Fierer, N.(2005). “Microbial community com-position and soil nitrogen cycling:is there really a connection?,” inBiological Diversity and Function inSoils, eds R. D. Bardgett, D. W.Hopkins, and M. B. Usher (Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press),171–188.Schimel, J. P ., and Gulledge, J. (1998).Microbial community structure andglobal trace gases. Glob. Change Biol.4, 745–758.Schimel, J. P ., Gulledge, J. M., Clein-curley, J. S., Lindstrom, J. E., andBraddock, J. F. (1999). Moistureeffects on microbial activity and com-munity structure in decomposingbirch litter in the Alaskan taiga. SoilBiol. Biochem. 31, 831–838.Schimel, J. P ., and Mikan, C. (2005).Changing microbial substrate use inArctic tundra soils through a freeze-thaw cycle. Soil Biol. Biochem. 37,1411–1418.Schimel, J. P ., and Weintraub, M. N.(2003). The implications of exoen-zyme activity on microbial carbonand nitrogen limitation in soil: a the-oretical model. Soil Biol. Biochem. 35,549–563.Schimel, J. P ., Wetterstedt, J. Å. M.,Holden, P . A., and S. E. Trum-bore. (2011). Drying/rewetting cyclesmobilize old C from deep soils from aCalifornia annual grassland. Soil Biol.Biochem. 43, 1101–1103.Schmidt, M. W. I., T orn, M. S., Abiven,S., Dittmar, T., Guggenberger, G.,Janssens, I. a, Kleber, M., Kögel-Knabner, I., Lehmann, J., Manning,D. A C., Nannipieri, P ., Rasse, D.P ., Weiner, S., and Trumbore, S. E.(2011). Persistence of soil organicmatter as an ecosystem property.Nature 478, 49–56.Schneider, T., Keiblinger, K. M., Schmid,E., and Sterﬂinger-gleixner, K.(2012). Who is who in litter decom-position? Metaproteomics revealsmajor microbial players and theirbiogeochemical functions. ISME J. 6,1749–1762.Sinsabaugh, R. L. (1994). Enzymic anal-ysisof microbial pattern and process.Biol. Fertil. Soils 17, 69–74.Sinsabaugh, R. L., Hill, B. H.,and Shah, J. J. F. (2009). Ecoen-zymatic stoichiometry of micro-bial organic nutrient acquisition insoil and sediment. Nature 462,795–798.Sinsabaugh, R. L., and Moorhead, D. L.(1994). Resource allocation to extra-cellular enzyme production: a modelfor nitrogen and phosphorus con-trol of litter decomposition. Soil Biol.Biochem. 26, 1305–1311.Sistla, S. A., and Schimel, J. P . (2012).Stoichiometric ﬂexibility as a reg-ulator of carbon ﬂux in terrestrialecosystems under change. New Phy-tol.196, 68–78.Six, J., Bossuyt, H., Degryze, S.,and Denef, K. (2004). A history ofresearch on the link between (micro)aggregates, soil biota, and soil organicmatter dynamics. Soil Tillage Res. 79,7–31.Six, J., Frey, S. D., Thiet, R. K.,and Batten, K. M. (2006). Bacterialand fungal contributions to carbonsequestration in agroecosystems. SoilSci. Soc. Am. J. 70, 555–569.Sloan, W. T., Lunn, M., Woodcock,S., Head, I. M., Nee, S., and Cur-tis, T. P . (2006). Quantifying theroles of immigration and chancein shaping prokaryote communitystructure. Environ. Microbiol. 8,732–740.Sollins, P ., Swanston, C., Kleber, M.,Filley, T., Kramer, M., Crow, S., Cald-well, B. A., Lajtha, K., and Bowden,R. (2006). Organic C and N stabiliza-tion in a forest soil: evidence fromsequential density fractionation. SoilBiol. Biochem. 38, 3313–3324.Stevenson, F. J. (1982). Humus Chem-istry. New Y ork: John Wiley & Sons,Inc.Strickland, M. S., Lauber, C., Fierer,N., and Bradford, M. A(2009). T est-ing the functional signiﬁcance ofmicrobial community composition.Ecology 90, 441–451.Sugai, S. F., and Schimel, J. P . (1993).Decomposition and biomass incor-poration of 14C-labeled glucose andphenolics in taiga forest ﬂoor: effectof substrate quality, successionalstate, and season. Soil Biol. Biochem.25, 1379–1389.Sutherland, I. W. (2001). The bioﬁlmmatrix–an immobilized but dynamicmicrobial environment. TrendsMicrobiol. 9, 222–227.Sutton, R., and Sposito, G. (2005).Molecular structure in soil humicsubstances: the new view. Environ.Sci. T echnol. 39, 9009–9015.Trumbore, S. (2009). Radiocarbon andsoil carbon dynamics. Annu. Rev.Earth Planet. Sci. 37, 47–66.Waksman, S. A. (1927). Principles ofSoil Microbiology . Baltimore: TheWilliams & Wilkins Company.Wallenstein, M. D., Hess, A. M., Lewis,M. R., Steltzer, H., and Ayres, E.(2010). Decomposition of aspen leaflitter results in unique metabolomeswhen decomposed under differenttree species. Soil Biol. Biochem. 42,484–490.Wang, G., and Or, D. (2010). Aque-ous ﬁlms limit bacterial cell motilityand colony expansion on partiallysaturated rough surfaces. Environ.Microbiol. 12, 1363–1373.Xiang, S.-R., Doyle, A., Holden, P . A.,and Schimel, J. P . (2008). Dryingand rewetting effects on C and Nmineralization and microbial activityin surface and subsurface Californiagrassland soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40,2281–2289.Y oo, G., Y ang, X., and Wander, M. M.(2011). Inﬂuence of soil aggregationon SOC sequestration: a prelimi-nary model of SOC protection byaggregate dynamics. Ecol. Eng. 37,487–495.Y oung, I. M., and Ritz, K. (2005).“The habitat of soil microbes,” inBiological Diversity and Function inSoils, eds R. D. Bardgett, D. W.Hopkins, and M. B. Usher (Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press),31–43.Conflict of Interest Statement: Theauthors declare that the research wasconducted in the absence of any com-mercial or ﬁnancial relationships thatcould be construed as a potential con-ﬂict of interest.Received: 25 June 2012; accepted: 09September 2012; published online: 26September 2012.Citation: Schimel JP and Schaeffer SM(2012) Microbial control over carboncycling in soil. Front. Microbio. 3:348.doi:10.3389/fmicb.2012.00348This article was submitted to Frontiersin T errestrial Microbiology, a specialty ofFrontiers in Microbiology.Copyright © 2012 Schimel and Schaef-fer. This is an open-access article dis-tributed under the terms of the CreativeCommons Attribution License, whichpermits use, distribution and reproduc-tion in other forums, provided the origi-nal authors and source are credited andsubject to any copyright notices concern-ing any third-party graphics etc.www.frontiersin.org September 2012 |Volume 3 |Article 348 |11