ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 1ORIGINAL RESEARCHpublished: 11 June 2021doi: 10.3389/ffgc.2021.686945Edited by:Nicolas Fanin,INRAE Nouvelle-Aquitaine Bordeaux,FranceReviewed by:Bin Wang,University of California, Irvine,United StatesDaryl Lee Moorhead,The University of Toledo,United States*Correspondence:Stefano Manzonistefano.manzoni@natgeo.su.seSpecialty section:This article was submitted toForest Soils,a section of the journalFrontiers in Forests and GlobalChangeReceived: 28 March 2021Accepted: 10 May 2021Published: 11 June 2021Citation:Manzoni S, Chakrawal A,Spohn M and Lindahl BD (2021)Modeling Microbial Adaptationsto Nutrient Limitation During LitterDecomposition.Front. For. Glob. Change 4:686945.doi: 10.3389/ffgc.2021.686945Modeling Microbial Adaptations toNutrient Limitation During LitterDecompositionStefano Manzoni1,2*, Arjun Chakrawal1,2, Marie Spohn3and Björn D. Lindahl31Department of Physical Geography, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden,2Bolin Centre for Climate Research,Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden,3Department of Soil and Environment, Swedish University of AgriculturalSciences, Uppsala, SwedenMicrobial decomposers face large stoichiometric imbalances when feeding on nutrient-poor plant residues. To meet the challenges of nutrient limitation, microorganismsmight: (i) allocate less carbon (C) to growth vs. respiration or excretion (i.e., ﬂexibleC-use efﬁciency, CUE), (ii) produce extracellular enzymes to target compounds thatsupply the most limiting element, (iii) modify their cellular composition according tothe external nutrient availability, and (iv) preferentially retain nutrients at senescence.These four resource use modes can have different consequences on the litter Cand nitrogen (N) dynamics–modes that selectively remove C from the system canreduce C storage in soil, whereas modes that delay C mineralization and increaseinternal N recycling could promote storage of C and N. Since we do not know whichmodes are dominant in litter decomposers, we cannot predict the fate of C andN released from plant residues, in particular under conditions of microbial nutrientlimitation. To address this question, we developed a process-based model of litterdecomposition in which these four resource use modes were implemented. We thenparameterized the model using 80 litter decomposition datasets spanning a broadrange of litter qualities. The calibrated model variants were able to capture most ofthe variability in litter C, N, and lignin fractions during decomposition regardless ofwhich modes were included. This suggests that different modes can lead to similarlitter decomposition trajectories (thanks to the multiple alternative resource acquisitionpathways), and that identiﬁcation of dominant modes is not possible using “standard”litter decomposition data (an equiﬁnality problem). Our results thus point to the need ofexploring microbial adaptations to nutrient limitation with empirical estimates of microbialtraits and to develop models ﬂexible enough to consider a range of hypothesizedmicrobial responses.Keywords: nitrogen limitation, litter decomposition, microbial model, carbon use efﬁciency, C:N ratio, microbialstoichiometry, extracellular enzymesINTRODUCTIONThe products of litter decomposition represent the ﬁrst step toward long-term soil organic carbon(C) stabilization (Berg and McClaugherty, 2003; Cotrufo et al., 2013), but decomposing nutrientpoor and/or chemically recalcitrant litter poses challenges for microorganisms. First, microbialdecomposers may not be able to easily obtain C and nutrients in optimal ratios for biomass andFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 1 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 2Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationmetabolism (Mooshammer et al., 2014). Second, access toenergetically or nutritionally useful compounds can be hinderedwhen these compounds are protected by recalcitrant ones (Talbotand Treseder, 2012). The adaptations of decomposers to facethese challenges aﬀect rates of litter decomposition and ultimatelyorganic matter stabilization.The ﬁrst challenge is imposed by stoichiometric imbalancesbetween litter and decomposers, which decomposers canconfront by four diﬀerent modes of resource use: (i) ﬂexibleC-use eﬃciency (CUE), (ii) synthesis of extra-cellular enzymesto target the most limiting element (selective enzymes), (iii)adjustment of microbial cellular composition (plastic microbialC:N), and (iv) by retaining limiting resources during senescence(nutrient retention). There is empirical support for the ﬁrstmode–decomposers might become less eﬃcient in convertingC taken up to biomass when nutrients are scarce (i.e., lowerCUE) (Mooshammer et al., 2014; Manzoni et al., 2017). Ifmicrobial CUE is lower when nutrients are limiting, it is possiblethat decomposition continues, but more C is mineralized orexcreted in soluble and labile forms (Hessen and Anderson,2008; Spohn, 2015). Preferential synthesis of speciﬁc extracellularenzymes can occur, especially when addition of one elementtriggers production of enzymes to mine another element fromorganic matter (Carreiro et al., 2000; Mooshammer et al.,2014). The potential consequence of decoupling of C andnutrient acquisition is that some compounds rich in theleast limiting element (C in litter) can be left behind duringdecomposition and the overall rate of decomposition decreasesunder nutrient limitation (Boberg et al., 2008). Microbialcellular composition can be changed when facing nutrientlimitation (Camenzind et al., 2021), but empirical evidencepoints to relatively homeostatic behavior (i.e., stable elementratios) at the microbial community level when consideringnitrogen (N) as a limiting factor (Manzoni et al., 2010;Fanin et al., 2013). Finally, microorganisms can retain themost limiting resource more eﬃciently, and reduce losses oflimiting resources in necromass or extracellular products (Spohn,2016; Spohn and Widdig, 2017; Camenzind et al., 2021).Therefore, depending on the net eﬀect of these adaptations,litter with low nutrient contents may promote or reduceC stabilization.The second challenge is imposed by the presence ofrecalcitrant compounds that impede access to more usefuland metabolically valuable ones. Energy-rich hydrolysablecompounds, such as cellulose, or nutrient containingcompounds, such as proteins, are partly chemically cross-linked to, or physically protected by, recalcitrant compounds,such as tannins, lignins or melanins, which need to bedegraded by oxidative mechanisms for microorganisms toaccess the more labile, hydrolysable compounds (Talbot andTreseder, 2012; Baskaran et al., 2019). High lignin contentis known to decrease decomposition rates both across littertypes (Aerts, 1997) and among litters from genotypes ofthe same species with variable lignin content (Talbot andTreseder, 2012). Notably, there are also major “hidden”metabolic costs associated with oxidation of recalcitrantcompounds (Shimizu et al., 2005), potentially associatedwith hydrogen peroxide production and amelioration ofoxidative stress. Thus, decomposing recalcitrant compoundsrequires expending energy that could otherwise beinvested in growth.Quantifying the combined inﬂuence of these diﬀerentadaptations on C stocks and dynamics is complicatedbecause they aﬀect C and nutrient dynamics throughoutthe decomposition process–during enzymatic depolymerization,when compounds are metabolized, when resources are convertedinto biomass, and during recycling at senescence. Process-based models are useful tools to track C and nutrients asthey are cycled during decomposition, and to assess thecomplex consequences of these microbial resource use modes.Indeed, several models have been proposed to describe theseprocesses, but they have not been integrated into a fullycoherent framework.In models, the ﬁrst challenge (stoichiometric imbalances) istypically dealt with by imposing stoichiometric constraints inthe equations linking C and nutrient ﬂows. Flexible CUE hasbeen implemented in some models, generally as a C-overﬂowmechanism in which “redundant” C is disposed of via respiration(Schimel and Weintraub, 2003; Wutzler et al., 2017), but also asan empirically-based function of nutrient availability (Campbellet al., 2016; Manzoni, 2017; Zhang et al., 2018). In models thatinclude extracellular enzymes, selective production of diﬀerentenzymes is generally constrained so that the total enzymesynthesis is constant, while the proportion of enzymes fordegrading C-rich or nutrient-rich compounds can be varied(Moorhead et al., 2012; Averill, 2014; Wutzler et al., 2017).More complex models allow dynamic synthesis of diﬀerentenzymes to create a balanced resource supply to the decomposers(Sistla et al., 2014). Some models also allow for phenotypicplasticity in microbial C:N ratio, assuming that microbial C:Nincreases with decreasing N availability (McGill et al., 1981;Parton et al., 1993; Sistla et al., 2014; Fatichi et al., 2019). However,most models impose strict homeostasis (constant C:N), whichconstrains microbial proliferation and decomposition undernutrient limitation (Moorhead and Sinsabaugh, 2006; Manzoniand Porporato, 2009; Zhang et al., 2018). We are not aware ofmodeling approaches in which nutrient retention at senescencecan be adjusted.Historically, decomposition models have focused on thesecond challenge, characterizing litter chemical properties interms of diﬀerent turnover times for each C compartment (Liskiet al., 2005; Manzoni and Porporato, 2009). While most modelsassume independent decomposition in each compartment, somedescribe interactions between recalcitrant and labile compounds,including inhibition of hydrolizable C decomposition whenthe content of recalcitrant compounds is high (Moorhead andSinsabaugh, 2006; Moorhead et al., 2013; Campbell et al.,2016; Fatichi et al., 2019). In contrast, a recent continuousquality model describes in a mechanistic way the release ofcellulose from the lignin matrix (Sainte-Marie et al., 2021). Thesemodels, however, are generally complex and require estimationof numerous parameters (except for the simple parameterizationin Moorhead et al., 2013). Moreover, as far as we know, noattempt has been made to describe “hidden” metabolic costsFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 2 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 3Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationof organic matter decomposition. Therefore, there is a needfor an intermediate complexity model that harmonizes thecurrent theories on both stoichiometric and chemical controls ondecomposition and requires readily available data for calibration.Our ﬁrst goal in this contribution is to ﬁll this gap, speciﬁcallyaiming at a formulation where stoichiometric constraintsdictate how the kinetics of decomposition and CUE varywith substrate quality when microorganisms employ diﬀerentadaptation mechanisms, as summarized by the four resource usemodes described above–ﬂexible CUE, selective enzymes, plasticmicrobial C:N, and nutrient retention. Second, we ask if we canexclude putative modes using litter decomposition data. To thisaim, we calibrated four variants of our model (one for eachmode) and assessed their performance in capturing changes in C,N, and lignin amounts during decomposition of 81 litter typesat four sites (data were obtained from published studies). If amodel variant based on a certain mode cannot capture trends inthe data, that mode could be excluded as a putative microbialresponse during litter decomposition. In contrast, adaptationsthat, when represented, lead to more accurate modeling oflitter decomposition trajectories would be useful targets forempirical studies aiming to speciﬁcally investigate the underlyingmicrobial traits.THEORY AND DATA ANALYSISThe modeled litter system is composed of three substratecompartments and one microbial decomposer compartment.Substrates include a carbohydrate pool (containing only C) and aprotein pool (containing C and N), both degraded by hydrolyticenzymes, as well as a recalcitrant organic matter pool (containingC and N), which is only degraded by oxidative mechanismsand therefore denoted as “oxidizable organic matter” in thefollowing. Microorganisms are pooled into a single compartmentcontaining C and N in ﬁxed proportion in all model variantsexcept mode (iii) implementing a plastic microbial C:N.Decomposition rates depend on microbial biomass content in thelitter and cellular mortality feeds back into the substrate pools.This general model structure is based on previous theoreticalwork (e.g., Moorhead et al., 2013; Sistla et al., 2014), and thenovelty here is in the way resource use is described and analyzed.The model schematic is shown in Figure 1A, and a detaileddescription of the model equations is provided in the following;C balance equations and ﬂuxes are presented ﬁrst (sections“Carbon Balance Equations, ” “Carbon Flow Rates, ” and “Eﬀects ofOxidizable Carbon on Decomposition and Microbial Growth”),followed by the N balances and related ﬂuxes (sections “NitrogenBalance Equations, ” “Net Nitrogen Mineralization Under CarbonLimitation, ” and “Partitioning of Necromass Among OrganicMatter Compartments”). Next, the implementation of thefour resource use modes is presented (section “NitrogenLimitation: Occurrence and Microbial Responses”; symbolsare deﬁned in Table 1). Finally, model parameterization,datasets, and numerical solution are described (sections “ModelParameterization, ” “Litter Decomposition Data, ” and “MassBalance Solution and Parameter Optimization”).Carbon Balance EquationsAll the substrate pools (C H: carbohydrate C, CP: protein C, CO:oxidizable C) receive inputs from litterfall and root turnover (I i,with i=H,P,O) and from microbial necromass. The partitioningof necromass to each substrate pool is deﬁned by the fraction miof the total microbial mortality rate Mthat reaches that pool; i.e.,miM(with i=H,P,Oand with the constraint mH+m P+m O= 1).Outputs from the substrate pools are due to decomposition (D i,with i=H,P,O), although only C from CHandCPcan be utilizedby the microorganisms, whereas products of COdecompositionare expected to be of little utility for microorganisms and lost byleaching or oxidized extracellularly all the way to CO 2. The massbalances of the organic C pools are written as:dCHdtDIHCmHM-DH; (1)dCPdtDIPCmPM-DP; (2)dCOdtDIOCmOM-DO: (3)Microorganisms (C B) convert CHand CPto biomass with agrowth eﬃciency eand die at a rate M,dCBdtDe.DHCDP/ M: (4)Carbon Flow RatesThe decomposition rates are deﬁned as linear functions ofthe substrate being degraded, but they also include non-linearsaturation functions of microbial biomass (similar to reverseMonod kinetics),DHDnVHCHgH/parenleftbigl/parenrightbig rKrCr; (5)DPDVPCPgP/parenleftbigl/parenrightbig rKrCr; (6)DODVOCOgO/parenleftbigl/parenrightbig rKrCr; (7)where Vi(i=H,P,O) are the potential decomposition rateswhen biomass and oxidizable C are not limiting factors, gi(l) (withi=H,P) is the function reducing hydrolytic enzyme activity whenrecalcitrant C accumulates (l is the fraction of recalcitrant C in theorganic matter, l=CO/(C H+CP+CO+CB)),gO(l) is the functiondescribing the up-regulation of oxidative enzyme activity at highlvalues, ris the fraction of microbial biomass C in the organicmatter pool (i.e., r=CB/(C H+CP+CO+CB)), and Kris the halfsaturation constant for biomass fraction. As explained in section“Mode (ii): Selective Enzymes, ” the coeﬃcient nin Eq. 5 decreasesin response to N limitation (i.e., carbohydrate degradation isdecreased if there is not enough N to convert DHinto biomass),but is set to n= 1 under C limitation.We do not model extracellular enzyme dynamics explicitly, asthe focus is on relatively long-time scales (monthly to decadal) atFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 3 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 4Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 1 | (A) Model schematic. White and gray boxes represent the modeled carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) compartments; solid and dashed arrows represent Cand N ﬂow rates, respectively (straight arrows refer to input, decomposition, and mineralization rates; curved arrows refer to recycling of microbial residues in thesubstrate compartments). (B)Simpliﬁed representations of the four resource use modes implemented in the model shown in panel (A)(color-coded as inFigures 2–6, 9). The text in italic explains the response to N limitation in each mode; the label “Total N” indicates N supply to microbes from both organic substratesand the inorganic N compartment.which we can assume that enzyme content is in quasi-equilibriumand thus adjusts rapidly. This equilibrium assumption impliesthat enzyme contents are proportional to synthesis rates andinversely proportional to the enzyme decay constant; in turn,if synthesis rates are assumed to scale linearly with microbialbiomass, the actual enzyme content will be also proportionalto biomass (a result of mathematically setting the mass balanceequation for the enzyme pool to zero), allowing us to accountfor enzyme activity via CBin the decomposition equations.Moreover, microbial biomass fraction (i.e., r) rather than biomasscontent per se is used in Eqs 5–7. This choice is motivated bythe observation that the colonization of the substrate can lead tocompetition among microorganisms for the substrate. When thebiomass fraction increases, both the room for new biomass andthe likelihood that an enzyme hits a substrate molecule decrease.With this model structure, the microbial growth rate is foundby summing up the contributions of the carbohydrate andprotein compartments,GDe.DHCDP/: (8)Similarly, the microbial respiration rate is calculated as,RD.1 e/ .DHCDP/: (9)Microbial mortality is assumed to follow ﬁrst-order kinetics;i.e.,M=mC B.Effects of Oxidizable Carbon onDecomposition and Microbial GrowthThe negative eﬀect of recalcitrant C on the decomposition ratesof the hydrolysable C pools is modeled by reducing the potentialdecay constants VHand VPas the content of COincreases. Thiseﬀect is implemented through the function gi,gi/parenleftbigl/parenrightbigD1 /parenleftbiggllmax/parenrightbigga; (10)where i=HorP,lis the fraction of recalcitrant C in theorganic matter, lmaxis the fraction at which the rate constants ofhydrolysable C degradation become zero and ais an exponentcontrolling the curvature of the relation (here assumed equalFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 4 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 5Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationTABLE 1 | Symbol deﬁnitions and units.Symbol Deﬁnition UnitsCB Microbial biomass C (Eq. 4) gC (initial gC) 1CH Carbohydrate C (Eq. 1) gC (initial gC) 1CO Oxidizable C (lignin; Eq. 3) gC (initial gC) 1CP Protein C (Eq. 2) gC (initial gC) 1(C:N)B;O C:N ratio of microbial residues entering the oxidizable organic matter compartment, assumed = (C:N )B gC gN 1(C:N)i C:N ratio of compartment i(with i=H,P,O,B) gC gN 1(C:N)I;i C:N ratio of inputs to compartment i(with i=P,O) gC gN 1Di Decomposition rate of Ci(with i=H,P,O; Eqs 5–7) gC (initial gC) 1y 1e Microbial growth efﬁciency (Eq. 12) –e* Microbial growth efﬁciency in the absence of costs for oxidation capacity (Eq. 22) –emax Maximum microbial growth efﬁciency –gi(l) Inhibition function for hydrolysable C decay constant (with i=H,P; Eq. 10) –gO(l) Upregulation function for oxidizable C decay constant (Eq. 11) –G Microbial growth rate (Eq. 8) gC (initial gC) 1y 1Ii C input rate to Ci(with i=H,P,O) gC (initial gC) 1y 1Imax Maximum rate of N immobilization gN (initial gC) 1y 1Kr Half saturation constant for microbial biomass effect on decomposition rates (Eqs 5–7) –l Fraction of oxidizable C, l=CO/(CH+CP+CO+CB) –lmax Maximum fraction of oxidizable C –m First-order kinetic constant for microbial mortality d 1mi Fraction of the microbial mortality rate routed to Ci(with i=H,P,O; Eqs 19, 20) –M Microbial mortality rate gC (initial gC) 1y 1Mnet Net N mineralization rate (Eq. 16) gN (initial gC) 1y 1NB Microbial biomass N (Eq. 15) gN (initial gC) 1NO Oxidizable N (Eq. 14) gN (initial gC) 1NP Protein N (Eq. 13) gN (initial gC) 1r Fraction of microbial biomass C, r=CB/(CH+CP+CO+CB) –rO C cost of a unit increase in oxidation capacity yR Microbial respiration rate (Eq. 9) gC (initial gC) 1y 1Vi Potential decomposition rate constants of Ci(with i=H,P,O) y 1a Exponent in the gi(l) functions (with iDH;P;O) –! N retention efﬁciency (Eq. 25) –n Coefﬁcient adjusting CHdecomposition rate (Eqs 23, 26) –Note that variables and parameters are normalized by the mass of C or N at the beginning of decomposition (Figure 3).to two). A similar approach was also proposed by Moorheadet al. (2013) and Margida et al. (2020). While degradation ofhydrolysable C is inhibited by high values of l, oxidative capacityis increased according to the function gO,gO/parenleftbigl/parenrightbigD/parenleftbiggllmax/parenrightbigga: (11)From a dynamic system perspective, Eqs 10, 11 constrain thefraction of oxidizable C to be lower or equal to lmax, whichcharacterizes the ﬁnal composition of organic matter.The microbial growth eﬃciency eis assumed to decreasewith increasing oxidative enzyme capacity VO. This decrease isprimarily ascribed to the C cost of producing hydrogen peroxide,which is necessary for the functioning of oxidative enzymes andconsumed during oxidative decomposition (Kirk et al., 1976;Shimizu et al., 2005). Thus, if microorganisms invest more inoxidation of CO, the cost of such an investment is accounted forin the reduction of e,eDe rOVOgO/parenleftbigl/parenrightbig; (12)where the cost of oxidative capacity is denoted by rO, and eis the growth eﬃciency in the absence of this cost. Note thatoxidative capacity changes with increasing oxidizable C fraction,so that during decomposition, the associated cost also increasesand edecreases.Under C limitation, we assumed that eattains a maximumvalue set by substrate energy content and the intrinsic catabolicrequirements of the decomposers, e=emax, whereas it can bedecreased under N limitation (section “Mode (i): Flexible C-UseEﬃciency”). Maintenance respiration is not explicitly modeled,soeis interpreted as an apparent growth eﬃciency that accountsfor maintenance costs (sensu van Bodegom, 2007), and is thusmathematically equivalent to the deﬁnition of CUE (ratio ofgrowth over substrate uptake).Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 5 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 6Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationNitrogen Balance EquationsThe N balance equations corresponding to Eqs 2–4 (recall thatthe carbohydrate pool contains only C) can be written as,dNPdtDIP.CVN/I;PCmPM.CVN/P DP.CVN/P; (13)dNOdtDIO.CVN/I;OC.1 !/mOM.CVN/B;O DO.CVN/O;(14)dNBdtDDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/P .1 !/M.CVN/B Mnet;(15)where (C:N )I;Pand (C:N )I;Oare the C:N ratios of the inputsto protein and oxidizable organic matter pools, respectively,(C:N )B;O is the C:N ratio of microbial residues routed to theoxidizable organic matter compartment, (C:N )i(i=P,O,B)are the C:N ratios of the organic matter compartments. Thecoeﬃcient !in Eqs 14, 15 is the eﬃciency of N retention atsenescence. It is set to != 0 under C limitation, when necromassis produced with the same C:N ratio as the active microbialbiomass (no N retention). However, under N limitation, !becomes larger than zero, indicating that N is preferentiallyretained in the active biomass and that the C:N in necromassincreases (section “Mode (iv): Nutrient Retention”). In Eq. 15, thenet N mineralization rate is denoted by Mnet, and it is assumedthat N associated with oxidizable organic matter can be takenup by microorganisms (in contrast to CO). This assumptionis equivalent to letting microorganisms “mine” N from theoxidizable organic matter (Craine et al., 2007).If (C:N )Bis assumed to be time-invariant, microbial N canbe calculated at any time as NB=CB/(C:N)B, making Eq. 15redundant. Moreover, if we assume that the C:N of inputs to theprotein compartment is equal to (C:N )P, also Eq. 13 becomesredundant and at any time NP=CP/(C:N)P. This reduces thetotal number of ordinary diﬀerential equations to solve to ﬁve(C balance Eqs 1–4 and a single N balance Eq. 14). However, if(C:N)Bis allowed to vary under N limitation (section “Mode (iii):Plastic Microbial Biomass C:N”), six independent equations–including Eq. 15–are to be solved.Net Nitrogen Mineralization UnderCarbon LimitationThe net N mineralization rate is calculated to keep the microbialC:N ratio constant (homeostatic assumption). Imposing a time-invariant C:N ratio implies setting dCB=dtD.CVN/BdNB=dt,which yields,MnetDDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/P G.CVN/B; (16)where the ﬁrst two terms on the right-hand side represent theavailable N from organic N sources (protein and oxidizableorganic matter compartments), and the third term represents themicrobial demand for N (driven by the microbial growth rate;Eq. 8). When the supply of organic N is higher than the demand,net N mineralization ensues and Mnet>0; in contrast, whenthe supply is lower than the demand, Mnet<0, requiring N tobe immobilized from the inorganic N pool (as long as inorganicN is available, see section “Nitrogen Limitation: Occurrence andMicrobial Responses”). It is also important to notice that !doesnot appear in Eq. 16 because under C limited conditions != 0(see section “Mode (iv): Nutrient Retention”).Partitioning of Necromass AmongOrganic Matter CompartmentsWe calculate how microbial necromass is partitioned among thesubstrate compartments (coeﬃcients mi,i=H,P,O) based onC and N conservation–the microbial C and N loss rates viamicrobial mortality must equal the rates of C and N transfer to thesubstrate compartments. These mass conservation constraintscan be formulated as,1DmHCmPCmO; (17)1 !.CVN/BDmP.CVN/PC.1 !/mO.CVN/B;O: (18)Note that in Eq. 18, no N from microbial mortality istransferred to the carbohydrate compartment, which containsonly C. However, N is transferred to the protein compartmentaccording to the protein C:N ratio, (C :N)P, and to the oxidizableorganic matter compartment based on a speciﬁc C:N ratio,(C:N)B;O, which reﬂects the chemical composition of theoxidizable fraction of microbial biomass. These two equationscontain three unspeciﬁed coeﬃcients (the micoeﬃcients) besidesthe C:N ratios of the substrate compartments, allowing us toexpress two coeﬃcients as a function of the third one. Usingthe fraction of oxidizable C in the microbial biomass mOas acoeﬃcient to be calibrated, the other two coeﬃcients are foundfrom Eqs 17, 18 as,mPD.1 !/ .CVN/P/bracketleftbigg1.CVN/B mO.CVN/B;O/bracketrightbigg; (19)mHD1 mO .1 !/ .CVN/P/bracketleftbigg1.CVN/B mO.CVN/B;O/bracketrightbigg:(20)The eﬀect of nutrient retention can be seen in both equations,which depend on !. If all N in mortality is retained, no N willbe lost in mortality (! = 1). As a result, no C or N will reach theprotein compartment (m P= 0 if != 1), and only C will reachthe oxidizable and hydrolysable organic matter compartmentsaccording to the coeﬃcients mHand mO.Nitrogen Limitation: Occurrence andMicrobial ResponsesFour alternative resource use modes are considered when Nbecomes limiting (Figure 1B and Table 2): (i) ﬂexible CUE(section “Mode (i): Flexible C-Use Eﬃciency”), (ii) selectiveenzymes (section “Mode (ii): Selective Enzymes”), (iii) plasticmicrobial C:N (section “Mode (iii): Plastic Microbial BiomassFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 6 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 7Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationTABLE 2 | Summary of model implementation of the four resource use modes, and changes of model parameters when microorganisms are N limited (see alsoFigure 1B).Parameter affected Flexible CUE (i) Selective enzymes (ii) Plastic microbial C:N (iii) Nutrient retention (iv)e* e*<emax(Eq. 22) emax emax emaxn 1 n<1 (Eq. 23) 1 n<1 (Eq. 26)(C:N)B Constant Constant (C:N)Bincreases Constant! 0 0 0 !>0 (Eq. 25)C:N”), or (iv) nutrient retention (section “Mode (iv): NutrientRetention”). These four modes are implemented by constrainingthe microbial C:N ratio to a constant value despite inorganicN sources being insuﬃcient to meet the microbial N demandin modes (i), (ii), and (iv), or by allowing the microbial C:Nratio to vary depending on the relative availability of C and Nin mode (iii). In modes (i) and (iii), the coeﬃcient nis set toone, whereas under N limitation in modes (ii) and in some casesalso in mode (iv), n<1. In modes (i) to (iii), the N retentioneﬃciency != 0, indicating that microbial C and N loss rates viamortality are coupled according to the microbial C:N ratio; whenunder N limitation microbial N is retained more eﬃciently thanC,!can increase.To proceed, the conditions under which N limitation occursmust be deﬁned. When the organic N supply to microorganismsis lower than their N demand, Eq. 16 provides the rate of net Nimmobilization that would compensate this imbalance and allowmicroorganisms to maintain a constant C:N ratio. This potentialnet N immobilization rate, however, may not be met if inorganicN supply is limited to a lower rate Imax. Thus, when the conditionG.CVN/B DO.CVN/O DP.CVN/P>Imax; (21)is veriﬁed, microbial growth switches from being C limited tobeing N limited.Mode (i): Flexible C-Use EfﬁciencyUnder N limitation, microbial growth has to be adjusted tothe amounts of N that organic matter decomposition andinorganic N immobilization (i.e., Imax) supply to the microbialbiomass. Slowing microbial growth by reducing eis one possiblemechanism (recall that Gdepends on e, Eq. 8). Mathematically,the value of growth eﬃciency under N limitation is found bymatching N demand and inorganic N immobilization in Eq. 21and solving for e,eD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/PDHCDP!eD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/PDHCDPCrOVO: (22)The value of edeﬁned by Eq. 22 maintains microorganismsunder conditions of C and N co-limitation, thus maximizingtheir growth rate for given N availability from organic andinorganic sources.Mode (ii): Selective EnzymesTo balance resource uptake when confronted with low Navailability, microorganisms can decrease the synthesis ofhydrolytic enzymes that degrade C-rich carbohydrates, resultingin lower activity of these enzymes and lower C uptake rate fromtheCHpool. In turn, lowering carbohydrate uptake decreasesmicrobial growth and thus N demand, while maintaining Nsupply from NPand NO. The activity of hydrolytic enzymes forC acquisition is modeled by adjusting the coeﬃcient nin thedecomposition rate DH(Eq. 5) when N is limiting (otherwise,n= 1). Speciﬁcally, the value of nthat reduces DHto the point ofbalancing N demand and N supply is found as before by equatingN demand and N immobilization in Eq. 21, recalling Eq. 5, andsolving for n,DHD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/Pe DP!nD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/Pe DPVHCHg/parenleftbigl/parenrightbigrKrCr: (23)While lowering growth eﬃciency increases respiration atthe expense of C stocks, lowering carbohydrate decompositionat constant growth eﬃciency maintains C in the organicmatter substrates; therefore, modes (i) and (ii) have diﬀerentconsequences at the decomposition system level.Mode (iii): Plastic Microbial Biomass C:NAs a third alternative to cope with N limitation, we consider thepossibility that microorganisms adjust their cellular composition,by increasing their C:N ratio to lower N demand. This processis implemented by allowing the C:N ratio of microbial biomassto vary as a function of the external N supply (i.e., Imax)under N limitation. In practice, plasticity is achieved by settingMnet= Imax (N limitation condition) and solving Eqs 4, 15independently through time. When a higher amount of C is takenup relative to N early during decomposition, the microbial C:Nincreases, while at the end of the N limitation phase, higher Ninputs than required reduce microbial C:N. For simplicity, andin contrast to other models (e.g., Sistla et al., 2014), we did notset any upper limit to microbial C:N, as that would have requiredswitching to another resource use mode.A plastic microbial biomass C:N ratio has implications for thedeﬁnition of net N mineralization and microbial N recycling tothe substrate compartments. In fact, the partition coeﬃcients mPand mH(Eqs 19, 20) depend on (C :N)Bto ensure that all the Cand N ﬂows remain balanced, and ( C:N)Bunder this scenarioFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 7 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 8Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationvaries through time. Moreover, the eﬀect of higher microbialC:N ratio under N limitation leads to long-term consequences.In fact, when N limitation ends, microbial C:N slowly transitionsback to the C:N ratio under C limitation, which will be attainedonly at equilibrium.Mode (iv): Nutrient RetentionMicroorganisms can also adapt to low N availability by selectivelyretaining N at senescence. This is equivalent to the release ofextracellular polysaccharides upon cell death combined withreallocation of N to living cells. Selective N retention under Nlimitation is modeled by letting the N retention eﬃciency !increase from zero under C limitation to a maximum of one.Assuming conditions of N limitation (i.e., Mnet= Imax), we canexpress the constraint that microbial C:N ratio is time-invariant(i.e., dCB=dtD.CVN/BdNB=dt) as,G MD.CVN/B/bracketleftbiggDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/P .1 !/M.CVN/BCImax/bracketrightbigg(24).Solving for !we ﬁnd,!DG .CVN/B/bracketleftBigDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/PCImax/bracketrightBigM: (25)With decreasing organic N availability (second term in thenumerator of Eq. 25), !increases. However, at most, an amountof N per unit time equal to M/(C:N)Bcan be recycled internally,corresponding to != 1. Thus, under strong N limitation, theN retention mechanism may not suﬃce to compensate forstoichiometric imbalances, requiring another mechanism to keepmicrobial C:N stable. We assumed that under such conditions therate of uptake of carbohydrates is decreased by reducing n, similarto mode (ii). To calculate how much nis reduced in Eq. 5, we set!= 1 in Eq. 25 and solve for DHﬁrst and then for n,DHD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/Pe DP Me!nD.CVN/BImaxCDO.CVN/OCDP.CVN/Pe DP MeVHCHg/parenleftbigl/parenrightbigrKrCr: (26)Interestingly, this solution is equivalent to that in Eq. 23 exceptfor the term M/ethat accounts for the fact that no N is allowedto be lost in mortality. The limit != 1 (complete N recycling) isprobably not realistic, but relaxing this assumption would onlylead to switching to mode (ii) at lower substrate C:N, thus notsigniﬁcantly aﬀecting the model outputs.Model ParameterizationThe model was parameterized to describe decomposition ofsingle leaf litter cohorts, as measured in litterbag studies(Table 3). In these studies, inputs of organic matter are assumednegligible (i.e., IH=IP=IO= 0), but the system is opento CO 2release and exchanges of inorganic N, even thoughN immobilization is constrained by external availability. Initialconditions for all the variables in our model were calculatedbased on the measured initial litter chemical composition, whichincluded total C, total N, and Klason lignin contents (the lattercorresponding to our COpool), and assuming initial protein anddecomposer biomass C fractions of 0.02 and 0.001, respectively.We also assumed that (C :N)P= 4 and (C :N)B= 11 (Manzoni et al.,2017). With this information, we could determine the initial CHby diﬀerence (total C - CO-CB-CP). Next, the initial NPand NBwere calculated as CPandCBdivided by their respective C:N, andﬁnally, the initial NOwas found as total N - NP-NB.It can be argued that decomposer communities are adaptedto grow between substrate limitation and self-regulation. Ifthis is the case, the half-saturation constant Krregulating themicrobial fraction eﬀect on decomposition can be estimated asthe long-term mean biomass fraction during decomposition. Inthe forest ﬂoor or at intermediate stages of decomposition, themicrobial (fungal) fraction is in the order of 0.01 (Berg andSoderstrom, 1979; Baldrian et al., 2013), whereas in decomposinglitter under laboratory conditions it can range between 0.01and 0.1 (from nutrient poor to nutrient rich litter) (Voriskovaet al., 2011). Based on the ﬁeld estimates, we thus selectedKr= 0.01.The microbial mortality rate constant is set to m= 0.5 y 1(based on Figure 3 in Wardle, 1998). This values is lower thanmore recent turnover rate estimates for forest soils (Spohn et al.,2016a), but it captures the long residence time of microbialC in inactive biomass. The partitioning coeﬃcient mOis therecalcitrant fraction of microbial biomass, estimated as 20% (5–15% melanin; see Fernandez and Koide, 2014). The C:N ratio ofthese residues is in turn estimated by ﬁrst assuming that about25% of microbial necromass N is recalcitrant (Baskaran et al.,2019); it follows thatmO.CVN/B;O/bracketleftBig1.CVN/B/bracketrightBig 114!.CVN/B;O9.This estimate is also consistent with reported C:N ratios formelanins between 6 and 11, though allomelanins, which arecommon in fungi, contain no N (Huang et al., 2018). Therefore,considering the large uncertainties, it seems appropriate toapproximate .CVN/B;O.CVN/B. As a result, using Eqs 19, 20with mO0:2 yields mP0:3 and mH0:5. These fractions,however, may change according to Eqs 19, 20 when (C :N)Bisplastic, as in mode (iii).The cost of maintaining oxidative enzymes rOis estimatedassuming that microbial growth eﬃciency is zero when theoxidizable C fraction reaches the maximum level lmax, leadingtorODe=VO. With this parameterization, microbial growthrate can be also expressed as eDe/bracketleftbig1 gO/parenleftbigl/parenrightbig/bracketrightbig. This assumptionis conceptually equivalent to considering a “negative” eﬃciency(i.e., a C cost) associated with decomposition of oxidizable C,as in Moorhead et al. (2013).The value of Imax incorporates any inorganic N input to thelitter system, including atmospheric N deposition, N throughfallfrom the canopy, and import of external N through fungalhyphae. To account for all these inputs, we adopted a data-drivenapproach–I maxwas estimated for a given site as the mean valueFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 8 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 9Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationTABLE 3 | Values of model parameters and their sources.Parameter Value Source or explanation(C:N)B;O =(C:N )B Approximation based on Baskaran et al. (2019)(C:N)P 4 Assumed(C:N)B 11 Average value for litter decomposers (Manzoni et al., 2017)emax Calibrated Datasets described in Table 4Ii 0 Litterbags are assumed to be closed to external inputs of organic compoundsImax Estimated Estimated for each site as the maximum rate of organic N accumulation in the litterbags incubated at that siteKr 0.01 Estimated based on measured microbial biomass fractions (Berg and Soderstrom, 1979; Baldrian et al., 2013)lmax 0.7 Moorhead et al. (2013)m 0.5 y 1Wardle (1998)mO 0.2 Fernandez and Koide (2014)rO =e*/V O Constraint in order to have zero growth efﬁciency at l=lmaxVP =VH AssumedVH Calibrated Datasets described in Table 4VO Calibrated Datasets described in Table 4a 2 Assumedof the maximum measured rate of N accumulation in each littertype incubated at that site.Litter Decomposition DataLitter decomposition data were obtained from four studiesin which mass loss, as well as N and oxidizable C (acid-insoluble residue, hereafter referred to as lignin) contents werereported; climatic conditions and litter chemical characteristicsfor these studies are summarized in Table 4 (more detailsare provided in the original sources). Raw data from theMalaysian and Japanese sites were provided by Prof. T. Osono;data from Berg and McClaugherty (1989) are available in theDepository of Unpublished Data associated with that paper(CISTI, National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, Ont.,Canada KIA OS2). Unless reported in the original sources,a 50% C content (on a dry mass basis) was assumed.Moreover, the C fractions and dry weight fractions of oxidizablematerial were assumed to be equal (i.e., we assumed similarC contents in all litter compounds). To calibrate the fourmodel variants, we normalized total C, total N, and oxidizableC by the respective values at the beginning of the litterbagincubations. As a result, all variables (as well as modelpredictions and errors) are non-dimensional and presented asfractions of initial values. Oxidizable C and total N fractionscan be larger than one when net accumulation of thesecompounds occurs.Litter data were screened to detect faster N release comparedto C loss, indicating N leaching, which was not modeled(following the approach by Manzoni et al., 2010). If the ﬁrstvalue of fraction of remaining N mass was lower than that of C;i.e.,N1=N0<C1=C0, we assumed that N leaching was occurring.Additionally, the data was also screened for rapid loss of initial C,again as a result of leaching (setting a threshold C1=C0<0:7). Ifeither of these two conditions were satisﬁed, we removed the ﬁrstmeasurement point and renormalized the data starting from thesecond point prior to model parameter estimation.Mass Balance Solution and ParameterOptimizationTo solve the mass balance Eqs 1–4 and 13–15 (for each ofthe resource use modes), we used both the solver NDSolve inWolfram Mathematica 12.0.0.0, and an in-house developedscript written in MATLAB R2020a based on a ﬁnitediﬀerence scheme and Picard iteration. Results from thetwo approaches were cross-validated to ensure consistent results.The Mathematica script was used to produce Figures 2–4and the MATLAB script for calibration and to produce theremaining ﬁgures. For parameter optimization, we used thelsqcurveﬁt function, which ﬁnds the best ﬁtted parameter using aleast-square error approach.After estimating most model parameters from independentsources (Table 3), the parameters VH,VO, and emax were leftfor calibration. These parameters should capture three key andindependent features of the decomposition process: the kineticsof degradation in the early and late phases of decomposition(respectively VHand VO) and microbial metabolism (e max).Therefore, with this choice of calibration parameters, we didnot expect equiﬁnality issues. Moreover, VHwas constrained tobe higher than VO, and all parameters were constrained withinmeaningful ranges (0–11 y 1for the rate constants and 0.05–0.8foremax).Two calibration approaches were used: a “local calibration”in which the three parameters were calibrated independently foreach litter type, and a “global calibration” in which they werecalibrated once for all litter types at each of the four sites. Modelvariants were calibrated using all available data in each litterdataset; i.e., the time series of fractions of initial C, N, and lignin.Our goal was to compare the performance of model variantsbased on diﬀerent assumptions on resource use by decomposers.Thus, we did not attempt to explain inter-site variability, butrather analyzed the four sites separately, acknowledging that theyare intrinsically diﬀerent due to contrasting ecological, edaphic,and climatic factors.Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 9 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 10Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationTABLE4 |Description of the litter decomposition datasets.Dataset Site ClimateMean annualprecipitation (mm)Mean annualtemperature (C)Duration of ﬁeldincubations (years)Number of littertypesRange of initialC:N (gC gN 1)Range of initiallignin fraction (–)Hirobeet al. (2004) Kuching (Malaysia) Tropical 3850 26 1.1 15 40–73 0.23–0.47Osono (2017) Okinawa (Japan) Subtropical 2487 20.7 3 12 20–110 0.17–0.45Osono and Takeda(2004, 2005)Kyoto (Japan) Temperate 2495 10 3 14 17–94 0.16–0.5Berg and McClaugherty(1989)Jädraås, Stråsan,Malung (Sweden)Boreal 60113.813–5 24 16–147 0.12–0.391Averageof climate data reported for the three sites in Berg and McClaugherty (1989).Model performance was evaluated with root mean squareerror (RMSE) and coeﬃcient of determination (R2), calculatedfrom all data used for parameter estimation, or only for asubsection of the data–only the fraction of remaining C, Nor lignin. Comparisons were performed for all litter types andfor only those litter types that exhibited N limitation (wherethe resource use modes were activated). Performances can becompared without accounting for diﬀerent degrees of freedomacross model variants because they all have three calibrationparameters. When using the local optimization approach, aKruskal–Wallis test was performed to assess if the median R2values for any given site diﬀered among models with diﬀerentmodes at play (R2values are not normally distributed), and atwo-way ANOV A was used to compare the mean RMSE amongmodes and sites. The Kruskal–Wallis test was also used tocompare the median values of VH,VO, and emax(also in generalnot normally distributed) across modes for a given site. Statisticaltests were performed in MATLAB environment.RESULTSWe start by showing how increasing litter C:N ratio alteredmicrobial traits (growth eﬃciency, enzymatic activity forcarbohydrate C degradation, microbial biomass C:N ratio, andN loss in mortality) when diﬀerent resource use modes wereimplemented (section “Eﬀect of Substrate C:N Ratio on C andN Fluxes, and Microbial Traits”). Next, the model was appliedto the litter decomposition datasets, and the performance of thefour model variants was compared (section “Model Applicationto Litter Decomposition Data”).Effect of Substrate C:N Ratio on C and NFluxes, and Microbial TraitsFigure 2 shows the modeled responses of heterotrophicrespiration, net N mineralization, and microbial traits to changesin substrate C:N ratio, under diﬀerent resource use modes. Tofacilitate the interpretation of this ﬁgure, oxidizable compoundswere not considered (i.e., CO= 0 and g(l) = 1), microbial biomasswas assumed not to be limiting decomposition (K r= 0), microbialbiomass C was set to a constant value, and the C:N ratio of thesubstrate was changed by varying the proportion of hydrolysablecompounds (which do not contain N) and proteins (N-rich).With this setup, Figure 2 essentially shows how instantaneous Cand N ﬂow rates and kinetic or stoichiometric parameters changewhen only substrate C:N is altered.The four modes caused contrasting patterns in respirationas the substrate C:N increased, in particular at C:N above 50,when N limitation occurs (Figure 2A). At higher C:N, respirationincreased when CUE was decreased (mode (i), gray line),decreased if carbohydrate acquisition was downregulated (modes(ii) and (iv), black dashed and orange solid lines, respectively),and did not change with plastic microbial C:N (modes (iii), reddotted). The decrease in mode (iv) occurs at a slightly higher C:Nthan in mode (ii) because carbohydrate acquisition is reducedonly when all N in mortality is internally recycled.Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 10 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 11Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 2 | Effect of four resource use modes (different line styles) for varying substrate C:N ratio on: (A)total microbial respiration rate (normalized by the C-limitedrespiration rate), (B)net N mineralization rate, Mnet(normalized by the maximum immobilization rate, Imax),(C)growth efﬁciency (Eq. 22), (D)coefﬁcient adjusting CHdecomposition rate, n(Eq. 23), (E)microbial biomass C:N ratio at equilibrium (obtained by combining Eqs 4, 15), and (F)N retention efﬁciency, !(Eq. 25). Variationsin substrate C:N are imposed by increasing the fraction of carbohydrates from 2 to 98% (lowest and highest C:N on the abscissa, respectively), assuming nooxidizable compounds are present; microbial biomass C is ﬁxed to 1% of the total organic C. In panel (B), the dot-dashed blue curve shows the net N mineralizationrate under C limitation. Parameter values are reported in Table 3, except for emax= 0.3, Imax= 0.004 gN (g initial C) 1y 1,VH= 4 y 1, and M= 0.2 g C (g initialC) 1y 1. Note that in most panels several lines overlap, especially under C limitation.All the modes except (iii) are based on the assumptionthat microbial C:N is constant under C limitation, whichimplies decreasing net N mineralization as the substrateC:N increases (Figure 2B). The decrease continues until netN mineralization turns negative and eventually reaches themaximum N immobilization rate (I max) when N becomeslimiting. Further increase in substrate C:N at this point does notchange the realized net N mineralization rate, which remainsconstrained by Imax. However, the N demand kept increasingwith substrate C:N, as indicated by the blue dot-dashed line inFigure 2B. Therefore–by model construction–the response of thenet N mineralization rate to changes in substrate C:N was thesame regardless of which mode was implemented.Figures 2C–F show how speciﬁc traits were aﬀectedby the four modes under N limitation–each mode aﬀectsprimarily one trait, while the others remain ﬁxed at theirvalues under C limitation. Flexible CUE (Eq. 22) causeda progressively decreasing proportion of acquired C tobe assimilated into biomass as substrate C:N increased(gray line in Figure 2C), whereas selective enzymes andFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 11 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 12Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 3 | Effect of four resource use modes (different line styles) during decomposition of plant residues: (A)fraction of remaining C (thick lines: total, thin lines:microbial biomass fraction), (B)fraction of remaining N (thick lines: total, thin lines: microbial biomass fraction), (C)growth efﬁciency (Eq. 22), (D)coefﬁcient adjustingCHdecomposition rate, n(Eq. 23), (E)microbial biomass C:N ratio, and (F)N retention efﬁciency, !(Eq. 25). Initial conditions (normalized by the total initial C):CH(0) = 0.78, CP(0) = 0.02, CO(0) = 0.20, CS(0) = 10 3; initial N contents are obtained by imposing (C:N )P= 4, (C:N )B= 11, and determining (C:N )O= 41 from atotal litter C:N = 100. Parameter values are as in Figure 2. Note that in most panels several lines overlap, especially under C limitation.nutrient retention modes caused the rate constant for CHdecomposition to decrease (Eq. 23; black dashed and orangesolid lines in Figure 2D). In mode (iii), the microbial C:Nratio increased (red dotted line in Figure 2E), and withthe nutrient retention mode, the fraction of N internallyrecycled increased under N limitation compared to Climited conditions (orange solid curve in Figure 2F).The N retention eﬃciency increased to a value of one,indicating that above C:N50 all N is retained in the activebiomass. However, this N saving is not enough at C:N >50,implying that also decreased carbohydrate acquisition isrequired (Figure 2D).Next, we considered the decomposition trajectories for thefull model (including the oxidizable pool), for each of the fourmodes in the case of plant residues with initial C:N = 100and an initial carbohydrate fraction of nearly 80%. All modescaused a loss of about 90% of initial C in 5 years (comparable toconditions in boreal conifer forests) (Figure 3A), and a net N gainranging between 25 and 70% over the ﬁrst 1–2 years, dependingon the mode (Figure 3B). When carbohydrate decompositionFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 12 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 13Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 4 | Partitioning of C among litter components and CO 2(including microbial respiration and the products of COdecomposition) when the initial litter C:N ratiois varied, for the four resource use modes, 1 year after the start of the incubation: (A)ﬂexible CUE, (B)selective enzymes, (C)plastic microbial C:N ratio, and (D)nutrient retention (color scheme as in Figures 2, 3). The total litter C:N is varied, but protein and microbial C:N are ﬁxed, so that moving left to right on the abscissais equivalent to increasing the initial carbohydrate fraction from 0.3 to 0.7, and decreasing the protein fraction from 0.4 to nearly zero. For clarity, carbohydrate andprotein C are combined into a single C fraction, CH+CP; parameter values and initial conditions are as in Figure 3, except total litter C:N, which is varied along theabscissa.was decreased in modes (ii) and (iv), C loss was slower andN immobilization more prolonged than with the other modes(black dashed and solid lines in Figures 3A,B). This delayedN accumulation implies that large microbial biomass fractions(especially in terms of biomass N) can be achieved with modes(ii) and (iv) at later stages of decomposition than in mode (i)and (iii) (thin lines in Figures 3A,B). In turn, high biomasspromotes decomposition, as shown in Figure 3A by the steepdecline in litter C around day 500 (solid orange and dashed blacklines). It is also worth noticing that the fraction of microbialbiomass in the litter peaks at around 10% of initial litter, since themortality rate we selected is relatively low (m = 0.5 y 1), causingaccumulation of biomass before necromass is transferred to thesubstrate compartments. With biomass C fractions much higherthan 1% (i.e., the value of half saturation constant Kr, Eqs 5–7),the decomposition rate becomes essentially a linear function ofsubstrate C content in the intermediate phases of decomposition.Figures 3C–F illustrate how the traits aﬀected by the fourmodes change through time, as the initial N-limited conditionsshift to C limitation after 1–2 years of decomposition. The initialperiod of low growth eﬃciency lasted about 1 year (Figure 3C),whereas lowered carbohydrate decomposition lasted for about2 years for mode (ii) and 1.5 years for mode (iv) (Figure 3D).The microbial C:N increased during the N-limited phase inmode (iii), but did not recover its initial value even by the endof the simulation (Figure 3E). Microbial recycling of N washighest until day 500, and then decreased to zero as conditionstransitioned to C limitation (Figure 3F). Because N retention wasnot suﬃcient to compensate the initial N shortage, mode (iv)resulted also in lower carbohydrate acquisition, as in mode (ii)(orange line in Figure 3D).The four resource use modes caused not only diﬀerenttemporal changes of the litter C compartments (Figure 3), butalso–at a given time–contrasting C distributions among thecompartments when the initial litter C:N was varied (Figure 4,showing “snapshots” of C partitioning at year 1 for a range ofinitial C:N). At low initial C:N, N was not a limiting factor andall modes were equivalent (initial C:N <30), but as the initialC:N was increased, they began to diverge. When microbial C:Nincreased, decomposers acclimated to varying litter C:N and werenot aﬀected by N limitation, leading to a ﬁxed partitioning ofC along the litter C:N gradient (Figure 4C). In contrast, theother modes resulted in decreasing decomposer biomass andincreasing pools of non-decomposed labile C (carbohydrates andFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 13 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 14Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationproteins) as litter C:N was increased (Figures 4A,B,D). Thereduced loss of labile C is particularly strong when carbohydrateacquisition was lowered, and was accompanied by a decreasein respiration (Figures 4B,D; note that CO 2here includes bothmicrobial respiration and the products of COdecomposition).In contrast, ﬂexible CUE led to higher respiration at high initiallitter C:N (Figure 4A). In all modes, the fraction of oxidizableC was relatively stable, because at the time of the “snapshots”(1 year after the start of the incubation), this pool had not beensigniﬁcantly degraded yet.Model Application to LitterDecomposition DataExamples of model ﬁtting obtained with the local and globalparameter optimization approaches are shown in Figure 5. Asexpected, local optimization allowed a more accurate ﬁttingof the time series of C, N, and lignin fractions, with similarmodel ﬁt for all four resource use modes and for bothlitter types selected as examples (top two rows in Figure 5).When optimizing parameters for all datasets from a given sitetogether (global optimization), performance overall decreased,with errors depending on the speciﬁc litter type (bottom tworows in Figure 5). Nevertheless, the general pattern of higher Nimmobilization in high C:N litter was correctly predicted.Across all datasets, local optimization resulted in a rangeof parameter values for each site, with increasing VHandVOfrom boreal to tropical climates, and highest emax undertemperate conditions (compare groups of bars in Figure 6).When comparing diﬀerent modes at a given site, parametervalues were strongly correlated and their median values did notdiﬀer signiﬁcantly (p >0.05, compare colors within a group ofbars in Figure 6). The strong correlation of parameter valuesbetween modes is expected because most datasets did not exhibitN limitation, and all modes are equivalent under C limitation.Next, we compared parameter values from ﬁtting of litter typeswhere decomposers were initially N limited, which reduced thenumber of litter types-mode combinations to 73 (out of 324 intotal). The temperate and tropical sites exhibited mostly C limitedconditions and were thus excluded from this analysis. As for thewhole dataset, also when selecting the N limited litters, medianparameter values did not diﬀer between modes.The global optimization resulted in site-averaged parametersthat followed the same patterns as those found with thelocal optimization (i.e., higher rate constants at warmer sites),but locally and globally optimized parameters diﬀered in thesubtropical and tropical sites (compare dots and median valuesinFigure 6). At the subtropical site, VHand emax from theglobal optimization were lower and higher, respectively, thanmost values found with the local optimization. At the tropicalsite, VH,VO, and emaxfrom the global optimization were higher,lower, and lower, respectively, than most values found with thelocal optimization.Similar to the examples in Figure 5, also in general themodel performance was higher when ﬁtting parameters locallythan globally, as indicated by the lower scatter of predictedvs. observed data points in Figure 7 compared to Figure 8.With modes (ii) to (iv), the models tended to underestimateboth the initial N immobilization (predicted N fraction lowerthan observed) and the later N mineralization (predicted Nfraction higher than observed). None of the model variantswas able to predict the initial accumulation of lignin in someboreal litter types.To gain insights into the role of the resource use modes,we focus now on N limited conditions, as none of the modeswas activated when decomposers were C limited. The overallmodel performance for datasets that exhibited N limitationis summarized in Figure 9A. The median coeﬃcients ofdetermination for the locally ﬁtted models were above 0.9,whereas for the globally ﬁtted models they were around 0.7.Notably, the overall performance was not signiﬁcantly aﬀected bywhich mode was implemented in the local calibration approaches(compare colors within a group of bars in Figure 9), but mode (iv)had slightly higher R2values at both sites. Also when comparingperformances with the global calibration, mode (iv) appearedmarginally superior, followed by model (iii). Performances werealso similar across modes when comparing the RMSE from theﬁtting of only one of the three variables we considered (fractionsof remaining C, N, or lignin), as shown in Figures 9B–D .Predictions of the fraction of remaining C were slightly, but notsigniﬁcantly better (lower RMSE) when microorganisms wereassumed to have ﬂexible CUE (Figure 9B).DISCUSSIONPutative Resource Use Modes EmergingFrom Earlier ModelsIn previous works, structurally diﬀerent models of litterdecomposition were compared, but only rarely have diﬀerentapproaches of modeling N limitation been contrasted using acommon model platform. In this section, we discuss whichresource use mode (or their combinations) might be occurringbased on these earlier model results.Nicolardot et al. (2001) treated growth eﬃciency (mode (i)),litter decay constant (mode (ii)), and microbial C:N (mode(iii)) as time-invariant parameters, and estimated them byﬁtting their model to data from mixtures of soil and residueswith contrasting chemical properties. They found that growtheﬃciency was nearly constant, whereas the litter decay constantdecreased and microbial C:N increased with increasing litter C:N.However, growth eﬃciency and microbial biomass C:N ratio arenot independent parameters, as noted by Ågren et al. (2013),so that ﬁtting both simultaneously might lead to equiﬁnalityissues. Moreover, these parameters were kept constant throughtime, thus not allowing the identiﬁcation of speciﬁc microbialresponses during the N limited phase of decomposition. Otherapproaches considered dynamic changes in microbial traitsduring decomposition, as discussed next.Manzoni (2017) tested a range of stoichiometric modelspredicting the fraction of remaining N as a function of thefraction of remaining C during decomposition. These modelsassumed that microbial growth eﬃciency was time-invariant(calibrated to each dataset as in our local optimization approach),Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 14 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 15Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 5 | Examples of model ﬁtting using the local (top two rows) and global (bottom two rows) parameter optimization approaches, applied to each of the fourresource use modes (same line styles as in Figures 2, 3). The fractions of remaining total C, total N, and lignin (C O) are shown in the left, center, and right columns,respectively. Two litter types with contrasting initial C:N ratio were chosen as examples–one with high initial C:N [Pinus sylvestris, C:N = 132, from Berg andMcClaugherty (1989)], and one with low initial C:N [Pterostyrax hispida, C:N = 14, from Osono and Takeda (2004, 2005)].that it varied during decomposition (mode (i)), or that bothgrowth eﬃciency and microbial C:N ratio varied (a combinationof modes (i) and (iii)). In nutrient poor litter, growth eﬃciencywas lower and increased more during decomposition comparedto nutrient rich litter, consistent with the hypothesis of ﬂexibleCUE. Including plastic microbial biomass C:N did not alterthe results–growth eﬃciency still decreased in N poor litterdespite plastic microbial C:N. Notably, among these models, thesimplest version based on time invariant, but locally calibratedgrowth eﬃciency was selected for nearly 60% of the datasetsFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 15 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 16Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 6 | Calibrated model parameters, including results from the local (box plots) and global (points) parameter optimization approaches: (A)maximum rate ofhydrolysable C uptake (V H),(B)maximum rate of oxidizable C uptake (V O), and (C)maximum growth efﬁciency (e max). Datasets are grouped by climate (Table 4) andresource use mode (color coded according to the legend). Each box indicates median and quartiles, and whiskers cover the data range excluding outliers.according to the Akaike Information Criterion, suggestingthat N limitation (or other associated litter traits, includingchemical recalcitrance and substrate accessibility) might aﬀectthe long-term average CUE, and not only CUE during the initialphases of decomposition.Moorhead et al. (2012) derived an equation for the relativesynthesis of enzymes involved in C and N acquisition from anorganic matter compartment that included both elements, and ofenzymes acquiring C from a second, C-only compartment. Theirequation was based on the constraint that microbial resourceacquisition is always stoichiometrically balanced, analogousto our approach. When allocation of all eﬀorts to enzymesacquiring both C and N resulted in too low N release, overﬂowrespiration would ensue (as in Schimel and Weintraub, 2003).This model thus implements modes (i) and (ii) simultaneously.Interestingly, however, these two mechanisms were not expressedsimultaneously, because enzyme selection occurred only at lowsubstrate C:N ratios, while overﬂow respiration occurred at highC:N. Building on the model by Moorhead et al. (2012), it was laterproposed that enzyme synthesis could be optimized to maximizethe microbial C uptake rate (Averill, 2014). This assumption ledto diﬀerent rates of synthesis of C- and N-acquiring enzymesat low substrate C:N ratios. The assumption of optimal enzymesynthesis eliminated N losses via mineralization, whereas thestoichiometric homeostasis allowed N release. Another approachto modeling enzyme synthesis was recently added in the sameframework by Wutzler et al. (2017). In this approach, enzymeallocation was proportional to the return on investment inFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 16 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 17Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 7 | Comparison of modeled and observed fractions of remaining total C [left column: (A,D,G,J)], total N [center column: (B,E,H,K)], and lignin (C O) [rightcolumn: (C,F,I,L)] for the four resource use modes (as indicated on the right) when the model parameters were locally ﬁtted. Data points are color coded accordingto their source: red from Berg and McClaugherty (1989), green from Osono and Takeda (2004, 2005), gray from Osono (2017), and blue from Hirobe et al. (2004);the 1:1 line is depicted as a solid gray line.that enzyme. As a result, the activity of N acquiring enzymeswas elevated and growth eﬃciency decreased as substrate C:Nincreased. Therefore, results from these contributions in generalsuggest that selective enzyme synthesis could partly alleviate Nshortage, but that ﬂexible CUE would be necessary under severeN limitation. Although the concept of “overﬂow respiration” asimplemented in these models suggests disposal of excessive C, itseems likely that microbial mechanisms have evolved to ensurethat the additional energy released by respiration is instead usedto intensify N foraging (Craine et al., 2007).Zhang et al. (2018) compared diﬀerent variants of theCENTURY model to assess whether N limitation decreasedCUE (mode (i)), the rate of labile litter decomposition (modes(ii)), or both. Implementing both modes improved the modelﬁt, but required more parameters compared to models withoutN limitation eﬀects or only ﬂexible CUE. This suggests thatdiﬀerent resource use modes may be at play simultaneously.This possibility was not tested here because our model structurerequires evaluation of a single mechanism at a time (except formode (iv)) to mathematically “close” the problem and determinehow a selected trait varies with N availability. Alternatively,one could allow for independent variations of several traits asa function of nutrient availability (Sistla et al., 2014, wheremodes (i), (ii), and (iii) are implemented), but at the costof additional parameters to estimate via data ﬁtting. Sinceeven the simplest microbial models can be overparameterizedand exhibit equiﬁnality issues (Marschmann et al., 2019), wepreferred to implement one mechanism at a time and comparemodel ﬁtting across our four variants. In fact, even with ourminimal calibration approach–and in contrast with our intuitiveFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 17 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 18Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 8 | Comparison of modeled and observed fractions of remaining total C [left column: A,D,G,J], total N [center column: (B,E,H,K)], and lignin (C O) [rightcolumn: C,F,I,L] for the four resource use modes (as indicated on the right) when the model parameters were globally ﬁtted. Data points are color coded accordingto their source: red from Berg and McClaugherty (1989), green from Osono and Takeda (2004, 2005), gray from Osono (2017), and blue from Hirobe et al. (2004);the 1:1 line is depicted as a solid gray line.expectation–the comparison between local and global parameteroptimization shows that growth eﬃciency and decompositionrate constants tend to change in concert and variations in theformer can be compensated by variations in the latter whenminimizing model errors (Figure 6).Individual-based models have also been used to studynutrient limitation and its consequences on the overall microbialcommunity response (e.g., Allison, 2012; Kaiser et al., 2014).These models consider the interactions of cells belonging todiﬀerent microbial groups in small domains, and thereforestudy decomposition as an emerging process driven by micro-scale interactions. Both models mentioned above assume thatmicrobial cells release C in excess via mineralization, similar toour ﬂexible CUE mode. The model by Allison (2012) allows someﬂexibility in microbial C:N, contrary to the strict homeostasis inthe model by Kaiser et al. (2014). None of these models considerspreferential resorption of N upon senescence. However, bothallow diﬀerent microbial groups to produce enzymes targetingdiﬀerent compounds, which leads to selection of microbialgroups with enzymes able to support their growth for givensubstrate type and availability. This sorting mechanism in turncauses changes in community-averaged C:N and CUE thatdepend on substrate and time. For example, according to Kaiseret al. (2014), the community-averaged CUE increases at thebeginning of decomposition (as in our ﬂexible CUE modein high C:N litter) and then decreases in the later phases,but thanks to interactions among microbial groups, after theinitial increase, CUE is insensitive to the initial litter C:N.This is diﬀerent from our result that even the long-term CUEvalues depend on litter type (as discussed in section “CanFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 18 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 19Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationFIGURE 9 | Summary of model performance for litter datasets in which microorganisms were N limited (only litter from boreal and subtropical sites). Performance isevaluated by (A)the overall coefﬁcient of determination (R2), and the root mean square errors (RMSE) of model ﬁtting to the fractions of remaining: (B)total C, (C)total N, and (D)lignin. RMSE values are non-dimensional because errors refer to the fractions of remaining C, N, and lignin. In panel (A), results from both the local(box plots) and the global (points) parameter optimization approaches are shown for comparison. Performance metrices are grouped by dataset (ordered based ontheir climate; Table 4) and resource use modes (color coded according to the legend). Each box indicates median and quartiles, and whiskers cover the data rangeexcluding outliers.Any Microbial Resource Use Mode Be Excluded Using LitterDecomposition Data?”).Overall, these ﬁndings suggest that, depending on the modelstructure, diﬀerent modes may be predicted to co-occur, or thatcertain modes might be dominant at low litter C:N (e.g., enzymeselection) vs. high litter C:N (e.g., ﬂexible CUE). A particularmode could also emerge from interactions within the microbialcommunity, as opposed to being imposed during model design.None of the modes considered in these models, however, could beexcluded as putative microbial mechanisms, which is consistentwith our main result that all are plausible.Can Any Microbial Resource Use ModeBe Excluded Using Litter DecompositionData?Based on the consistently high and comparable performanceof the four model variants, all hypothesized mechanisms ofadaptation to N limitation appear to be plausible. This ﬁndingindicates that either all resource use modes are possible (asalternative modes or occurring simultaneously) or that ourapproach does not allow any of them to be ruled out (section “CanWe Use Bulk Chemistry Data to Identify Resource Use Modes?”).Besides the theoretical evidence discussed in section “PutativeResource Use Modes Emerging From Earlier Models, ” thereis empirical evidence that diﬀerent modes can be expressedunder nutrient limitation (Mooshammer et al., 2014; Spohn,2016). Microbial CUE (which is mathematically equivalent tothe apparent growth eﬃciency in our model) has been shownto decrease as the bulk substrate C:N ratio increases in soil (Leeand Schmidt, 2014) and litter (Boberg et al., 2008; Manzoniet al., 2010; Voriskova et al., 2011; Lashermes et al., 2016;but see contrasting results in Camenzind et al., 2020). Thistrend in CUE is expected if we assume that microbial growthrate (Manzoni et al., 2017) or C uptake rate (Wutzler et al.,2017) is maximized along a gradient in nutrient availability.However, stoichiometric imbalances are not the only drivers ofCUE changes along nutrient availability gradients. For example,CUE might increase in fertilized soils because of lower energycosts of N acquisition associated with inhibition of oxidativeFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 19 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 20Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationenzyme activity (Craine et al., 2007; Spohn et al., 2016b). Whencomparing soil with contrasting organic matter C:N ratios,CUE patterns could also be driven by variation in microbialcommunity composition rather than by phenotypic responsesto nutrient availability (Soares and Rousk, 2019), suggestingagain that stoichiometric constraints alone do not always explainCUE variations. Here we showed that ﬂexible CUE allows formarginally better model ﬁtting to the fraction of remaining Ccompared to other adaptations, indicating that this mode isindeed important.There is also evidence of selective resource acquisition viaextracellular enzymes. In our implementation of mode (ii), weassumed that less carbohydrate-degrading enzymes are producedand thus less C is acquired in N limited conditions. Therefore,the occurrence of this mode could be veriﬁed by evidence oflower activity of hydrolytic enzymes for C acquisition (e.g., b-glucosidases) compared to hydrolytic enzymes for N acquisition(e.g., leucine aminopeptidase). This has been reported, forexample, for grassland soils in North America, where N inputsdecreased leucine aminopeptidase activity by 70% (Ramirezet al., 2012). Similarly, in a 65-year grassland experiment withmultiple levels of N addition in South Africa, N additiondecreased leucine aminopeptidase activity and increased b-glucosidase activity (Schleuss et al., 2019). The strong increasein the activities of these two groups of enzymes with increasingC:N ratio of the dissolved organic matter occurred at a low(<6) C:N ratio (Schleuss et al., 2019). In contrast to thesestudies, there is also evidence of coordinated decreases ofboth C and N acquiring enzymes at high C:N (Camenzindet al., 2020). Overall, this evidence indicates that mode (ii)can be expected at relatively low C:N ratios, as also predictedby previous models (section “Putative Resource Use ModesEmerging From Earlier Models”). Our results do not showa consistent improvement of any model performance metricwhen implementing mode (ii) compared to other modes,but performances were relatively high, so mode (ii) couldnot be excluded.Similarly, we could not exclude mode (iii), consistent withevidence of increased microbial C:N ratio of fungal isolatesunder nutrient limitation (Camenzind et al., 2021), or at thecommunity level in the earlier phases of litter decomposition(Van Meeteren et al., 2007). Other reports, however, indicatestoichiometric homeostasis at the microbial community level,despite large variations in substrate C:N ratios (Fanin et al., 2013;Schleuss et al., 2019). Indeed, the C:N ratio of pure mycelium offungi degrading pine needles was not aﬀected by N additions butvaried between fungal species (Boberg et al., 2014), suggestingthat community level C:N could be stabilized by species selection.It remains to be determined whether the observed homeostasisin litter and soil communities might be partly an artifact of thefumigation extraction, which could miss high molecular weightor non-polar storage compounds that would skew microbial C:Nratio in ways consistent with mode (iii). We thus expect thatplasticity in microbial biomass C:N ratio could be an importantmechanism to face N limitation, though its role at the communitylevel, relevant for most biogeochemical models, remains to bedemonstrated empirically.The proposed mode (iv) has perhaps the least empiricalsupport, mostly because technical developments have onlyrecently allowed us to estimate microbial mortality. We describenutrient retention relative to C by allowing N to be internallyrecycled at senescence. Consistent with this mode, N waspreferentially recycled in growing fungal hyphae, leaving behinda C enriched less active biomass (Camenzind et al., 2021). Theturnover rate of microbial phosphorus (P) was shown to befaster in fertilized soils, indicating a relatively higher P retentionwhen this element was less available (Spohn and Widdig, 2017).In a cropland soil, C in the microbial biomass had a meanresidence time of3 months, while P had a mean residence timeless than half that of C, indicating that C was more eﬃcientlyretained in the microbial biomass than the nutrient (Kounoet al., 2002). Nutrients can also be recycled via consumptionof the decaying part of the microbial community by the activepart (Capek et al., 2021). When fresh pine litter (high C:N)was linked to pre-decomposed (low C:N) litter by a commonfungal mycelium, N was transferred from the older N-richneedles toward the fresh N-poor needles, where fungal biomassproduction and decomposition were stimulated (Boberg et al.,2014). Addition of new litter also decreased fungal biomass inthe pre-decomposed litter, indicating that N limitation inducedbiomass recycling. In the same experiment, biomass recycling waslinked to increased CUE, showing that a combination of modes(i) and (iv) was at play. Moreover, high expression of chitinaseencoding genes has been observed in senescing mycelium of awood decomposing fungus, indicating internal recycling of cell-wall bound N (Karlsson et al., 2016). Interestingly, the modelvariant that performed best in the global optimization was basedon mode (iv), suggesting that quantifying microbial mortalityand associated nutrient and C ﬂows as nutrient availabilityvaries holds promise to improve the predictive capacity ofbiogeochemical models.Can We Use Bulk Chemistry Data toIdentify Resource Use Modes?As suggested above, it is possible that our approach does not havethe resolution required to dismiss any adaptation mechanism.Ideally, one could test if a speciﬁc mode is at play by directlymeasuring the four microbial properties that are aﬀected bythe modes (i.e., CUE, enzyme activity, microbial C:N, andturnover rate of C vs. other nutrients in microbial biomass)–model predictions could then be tested against these data. Herewe instead use coarse-resolution, bulk litter chemistry data thatare readily available for litter types ranging from N-rich toN-poor. These datasets are useful for our purposes only if agiven adaptation leaves a speciﬁc signature at a macroscopic (i.e.,bulk chemistry) level–an indirect test, as often done when modelparameters map onto traits that are not readily measured. Exceptfor slightly higher performance achieved by mode (iv) (followedby (iii)) when using a global optimization approach), the fourmodes did not result in distinctive features in the predictedlitter chemistry.It could also be argued that ﬁtting of the three parametersVH,VO, and emax for each model variant reduces the eﬀect ofFrontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 20 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 21Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N Limitationdiﬀerent modes on macroscopic litter chemistry. In fact, a givenmode could have a strong eﬀect on model performance, butthe least square ﬁtting could converge to the same trajectoryas the other modes by adjusting the three free parameters.The parameter values, however, were not signiﬁcantly diﬀerentacross modes even when restricting the comparison to littertypes with N limited decomposers. This suggests that, overall,the model calibration did not mask eﬀects of the modes onmodel performance.However, it is important to emphasize that in most littertypes, the local optimization yielded low values of emax, whichalone prevent N limitation in the early phases of decomposition.We thus performed an additional local optimization by notallowing emax values lower than 0.2 (not shown). As aresult, as expected, N limitation emerged and the resourceuse modes were accordingly activated more often, in 131combinations of litter type, mode and site, out of a total of324 combinations. However, the model performance declined,suggesting that low emax values are necessary to obtain agood ﬁtting (results not shown). This result implies thatlong-term adaptations (recall that emax is a time-invariantparameter) might be as important as short-term responsesto N limitation.As the mechanisms of microbial adaptation to N limitationare diﬃcult to deduce indirectly, direct measurements ofmicrobial traits and how they change between substrates andthroughout diﬀerent stages of decomposition are needed. Litterbag experiments combined with metatranscriptomic analysesof the collective gene expression of communities of litterdecomposers may provide simultaneous information aboutrelative investments in extracellular enzymes, growth, respiratoryenergy production (Barbi et al., 2020) and even autolyticbiomass turnover (Karlsson et al., 2016). Such assays could becombined with more direct, incubation-based measurements ofgrowth, turnover, and CUE by isotope labeling (Spohn et al.,2016b; Spohn and Widdig, 2017; Soares and Rousk, 2019)and monitoring of the temporal dynamics of enzyme activities(Sinsabaugh et al., 2002) and chemical pools (Baskaran et al.,2019). Importantly, for these combined approaches to be usefulto select the dominant adaptations to N limitation, they wouldneed to be applied both across litter types with varying C:Nand through time.CONCLUSIONFour modes of microbial adaptation to N limitation weredeﬁned based on existing theories and empirical evidence:(i) ﬂexible C-use eﬃciency, (ii) selective enzymes, (iii) plasticmicrobial biomass C:N ratio, and (iv) nutrient retention inthe microbial biomass. We set out to assess if some ofthese modes are less likely than others to play a role duringearly litter decomposition. Based on the performance metricsof four model variants, each implementing a single modeand calibrated on litter decomposition data, we could notdecisively dismiss any of the four hypothesized modes–theyall enabled comparably good model ﬁt. Therefore, we suggestthat all strategies are plausible and that direct measurementof the microbial traits indicative of each mode are necessaryto identify in which conditions a speciﬁc adaptation isparticularly relevant or whether diﬀerent modes of adaptationoccur in concert.DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENTThe data analyzed in this study can be found in the originalpublications (Berg and McClaugherty, 1989; Hirobe et al., 2004;Osono and Takeda, 2004, 2005; Osono, 2017); model parametersand performance metrics are reported in SupplementaryTables 1, 2for all litter types and sites. The datasets are publishedand can be requested from the authors of the articles.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSAll authors designed the study and developed the theory. SMand AC conducted the analyses and produced the results.SM drafted the manuscript. AC, MS, and BL commented andrevised the manuscript.FUNDINGThis work is supported by the Swedish Research CouncilVetenskapsrådet (grant 2020-03910) and by the SwedishResearch Council FORMAS (grant 2015-00468).ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank T. Osono for sharing litter decomposition data, andtwo reviewers for constructive comments.SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALThe Supplementary Material for this article can be foundonline at: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/ﬀgc.2021.686945/full#supplementary-materialSupplementary Table 1 | Results of the local parameter optimization and modelperformance. Imax: maximum rate of N immobilization; VH: potentialdecomposition rate constant of protein and carbohydrate C; VO: potentialdecomposition rate constant of the oxidizable C; emax: maximum growthefﬁciency; RMSE: root mean square error; R2: coefﬁcient of determination.Supplementary Table 2 | Results of the global parameter optimization and modelperformance. Imax: maximum rate of N immobilization; VH: potentialdecomposition rate constant of protein and carbohydrate C; VO: potentialdecomposition rate constant of the oxidizable C; emax: maximum growthefﬁciency; RMSE: root mean square error; R2: coefﬁcient of determination.Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 21 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 22Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationREFERENCESAerts, R. (1997). Climate, leaf litter chemistry and leaf litter decomposition interrestrial ecosystems: a triangular relationship. Oikos 79, 439–449. doi: 10.2307/3546886Ågren, G. I., Hyvonen, R., Berglund, S. L., and Hobbie, S. E. (2013). Estimating thecritical N:C from litter decomposition data and its relation to soil organic matterstoichiometry. Soil Biol. Biochem. 67, 312–318. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.09.010Allison, S. D. (2012). A trait-based approach for modelling microbial litterdecomposition. Ecol. Lett. 15, 1058–1070. doi: 10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01807.xAverill, C. (2014). Divergence in plant and microbial allocation strategies explainscontinental patterns in microbial allocation and biogeochemical ﬂuxes. Ecol.Lett. 17, 1202–1210. doi: 10.1111/ele.12324Baldrian, P., Vetrovsky, T., Cajthaml, T., Dobiasova, P., Petrankova, M., Snajdr, J.,et al. (2013). Estimation of fungal biomass in forest litter and soil. Fungal Ecol.6, 1–11. doi: 10.1016/j.funeco.2012.10.002Barbi, F., Kohler, A., Barry, K., Baskaran, P., Daum, C., Fauchery, L., et al. (2020).Fungal ecological strategies reﬂected in gene transcription–a case study of twolitter decomposers. Environ. Microbiol. 22, 1089–1103. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.14873Baskaran, P., Ekblad, A., Soucemarianadin, L. N., Hyvonen, R., Schleucher, J., andLindahl, B. D. (2019). Nitrogen dynamics of decomposing Scots pine needlelitter depends on colonizing fungal species. Fems Microbiol. Ecol. 95:ﬁz059.doi: 10.1093/femsec/ﬁz059Berg, B., and McClaugherty, C. (1989). Nitrogen and phosphorus release fromdecomposing litter in relation to the disappearance of lignin. Can. J. Bot. Rev.Can. Bot. 67, 1148–1156. doi: 10.1139/b89-150Berg, B., and McClaugherty, C. A. (2003). Plant Litter. Decomposition, HumusFormation, Carbon Sequestration. Berlin: Springer.Berg, B., and Soderstrom, B. (1979). Fungal biomass and nitrogen in decomposingscots pine needle litter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 11, 339–341. doi: 10.1016/0038-0717(79)90045-2Boberg, J., Finlay, R. D., Stenlid, J., Nasholm, T., and Lindahl, B. D. (2008). Glucoseand ammonium additions aﬀect needle decomposition and carbon allocation bythe litter degrading fungus Mycena epipterygia. Soil Biol. Biochem. 40, 995–999.doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.11.005Boberg, J. B., Finlay, R. D., Stenlid, J., Ekblad, A., and Lindahl, B. D. (2014).Nitrogen and carbon reallocation in fungal mycelia during decomposition ofboreal forest litter. Plos One 9:e92897. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092897Camenzind, T., Lehmann, A., Ahland, J., Rumpel, S., and Rillig, M. C. (2020). Trait-based approaches reveal fungal adaptations to nutrient-limiting conditions.Environ. Microbiol. 22, 3548–3560. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.15132Camenzind, T., Philipp Grenz, K., Lehmann, J., and Rillig, M. C. (2021). Soil fungalmycelia have unexpectedly ﬂexible stoichiometric C:N and C:P ratios. Ecol. Lett.24, 208–218. doi: 10.1111/ele.13632Campbell, E. E., Parton, W. J., Soong, J. L., Paustian, K., Hobbs, N. T., and Cotrufo,M. F. (2016). Using litter chemistry controls on microbial processes to partitionlitter carbon ﬂuxes with the Litter Decomposition and Leaching (LIDEL) model.Soil Biol. Biochem. 100, 160–174. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.06.007Capek, P., Choma, M., Tahovska, K., Kana, J., Kopacek, J., and Santruckova, H.(2021). Coupling the resource stoichiometry and microbial biomass turnoverto predict nutrient mineralization and immobilization in soil. Geoderma385:114884. doi: 10.1016/j.geoderma.2020.114884Carreiro, M. M., Sinsabaugh, R. L., Repert, D. A., and Parkhurst, D. F. (2000).Microbial enzyme shifts explain litter decay responses to simulated nitrogendeposition. Ecology 81, 2359–2365. doi: 10.2307/177459Cotrufo, M. F., Wallenstein, M. D., Boot, C. M., Denef, K., and Paul, E. (2013).The microbial eﬃciency-matrix stabilization (MEMS) framework integratesplant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization: do labile plantinputs form stable soil organic matter? Glob. Change Biol. 19, 988–995. doi:10.1111/gcb.12113Craine, J. M., Morrow, C., and Fierer, N. (2007). Microbial nitrogen limitationincreases decomposition. Ecology 88, 2105–2113. doi: 10.1890/06-1847.1Fanin, N., Fromin, N., Buatois, B., and Hättenschwiler, S. (2013). An experimentaltest of the hypothesis of non-homeostatic consumer stoichiometry in a plantlitter–microbe system. Ecol. Lett. 16, 764–772. doi: 10.1111/ele.12108Fatichi, S., Manzoni, S., Or, D., and Paschalis, A. (2019). A mechanistic modelof microbially mediated soil biogeochemical processes: a reality check. Glob.Biogeochem. Cycles 33, 620–648. doi: 10.1029/2018gb006077Fernandez, C. W., and Koide, R. T. (2014). Initial melanin and nitrogenconcentrations control the decomposition of ectomycorrhizal fungal litter. SoilBiol. Biochem. 77, 150–157. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2014.06.026Hessen, D. O., and Anderson, T. R. (2008). Excess carbon in aquatic organisms andecosystems: physiological, ecological, and evolutionary implications. Limnol.Oceanogr. 53, 1685–1696. doi: 10.4319/lo.2008.53.4.1685Hirobe, M., Sabang, J., Bhatta, B. K., and Takeda, H. (2004). Leaf-litterdecomposition of 15 tree species in a lowland tropical rain forest in Sarawak:dynamics of carbon, nutrients, and organic constituents. J. For. Res. 9, 347–354.doi: 10.1007/s10310-004-0088-9Huang, L., Liu, M., Huang, H., Wen, Y., Zhang, X., and Wei, Y. (2018).Recent advances and progress on melanin-like materials and their biomedicalapplications. Biomacromolecules 19, 1858–1868. doi: 10.1021/acs.biomac.8b00437Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Dieckmann, U., and Richter, A. (2014). Microbialcommunity dynamics alleviate stoichiometric constraints during litter decay.Ecol. Lett. 17, 680–690. doi: 10.1111/ele.12269Karlsson, M., Stenlid, J., and Lindahl, B. (2016). Functional diﬀerentiation ofchitinases in the white-rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium. Fungal Ecol.22, 52–60. doi: 10.1016/j.funeco.2016.04.004Kirk, T., Connors, W., and Zeikus, J. (1976). Requirement for a growth substrateduring lignin decomposition by 2 wood-rotting fungi. Appl. Environ. Microbiol.32, 192–194. doi: 10.1128/AEM.32.1.192-194.1976Kouno, K., Wu, J., and Brookes, P. C. (2002). Turnover of biomass C and P in soilfollowing incorporation of glucose or ryegrass. Soil Biol. Biochem. 34, 617–622.doi: 10.1016/S0038-0717(01)00218-8Lashermes, G., Gainvors-Claisse, A., Recous, S., and Bertrand, I. (2016). Enzymaticstrategies and carbon use eﬃciency of a litter-decomposing fungus grown onmaize leaves, stems, and roots. Front. Microbiol. 7:1315. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.01315Lee, Z. M., and Schmidt, T. M. (2014). Bacterial growth eﬃciency varies in soilsunder diﬀerent land management practices. Soil Biol. Biochem. 69, 282–290.doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.11.012Liski, J., Palosuo, T., Peltoniemi, M., and Sievanen, R. (2005). Carbon anddecomposition model Y asso for forest soils. Ecol. Model. 189, 168–182. doi:10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2005.03.005Manzoni, S. (2017). Flexible carbon-use eﬃciency across litter types andduring decomposition partly compensates nutrient imbalances—results fromanalytical stoichiometric models. Front. Microbiol. 8:661. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00661Manzoni, S., ˇCapek, P., Mooshammer, M., Lindahl, B. D., Richter, A.,and Šantr ˚uˇcková, H. (2017). Optimal metabolic regulation along resourcestoichiometry gradients. Ecol. Lett. 20, 1182–1191. doi: 10.1111/ele.12815Manzoni, S., and Porporato, A. (2009). Soil carbon and nitrogen mineralization:theory and models across scales. Soil Biol. Biochem. 41, 1355–1379. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2009.02.031Manzoni, S., Trofymow, J. A., Jackson, R. B., and Porporato, A. (2010).Stoichiometric controls dynamics on carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus indecomposing litter. Ecol. Monogr. 80, 89–106. doi: 10.1890/09-0179.1Margida, M. G., Lashermes, G., and Moorhead, D. L. (2020). Estimating relativecellulolytic and ligninolytic enzyme activities as functions of lignin and cellulosecontent in decomposing plant litter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 141:107689. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.107689Marschmann, G. L., Pagel, H., Kuegler, P., and Streck, T. (2019). Equiﬁnality,sloppiness, and emergent structures of mechanistic soil biogeochemicalmodels. Environ. Model. Softw. 122:UNS104518. doi: 10.1016/j.envsoft.2019.104518McGill, W. B., Hunt, H. W., Woodmansee, R. G., and Reuss, J. O. (1981). “Phoenix,a model of the dynamics of carbon and nitrogen in grassland soils, ” in TerrestrialNitrogen Cycles. Processes, Ecosystem Strategies and Management Impacts, edsF. E. Clark and T. Rosswall (Stockholm: Ecological Bullettins), 49–115.Moorhead, D. L., Lashermes, G., and Sinsabaugh, R. L. (2012). A theoretical modelof C- and N-acquiring exoenzyme activities, which balances microbial demandsduring decomposition. Soil Biol. Biochem. 53, 133–141. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2012.05.011Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 22 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945ﬀgc-04-686945 June 8, 2021 Time: 16:13 # 23Manzoni et al. Microbial Responses to N LimitationMoorhead, D. L., Lashermes, G., Sinsabaugh, R. L., and Weintraub, M. N. (2013).Calculating co-metabolic costs of lignin decay and their impacts on carbon useeﬃciency. Soil Biol. Biochem. 66, 17–19. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.06.016Moorhead, D. L., and Sinsabaugh, R. L. (2006). A theoretical model of litterdecay and microbial interaction. Ecol. Monogr. 76, 151–174. doi: 10.1890/0012-9615(2006)076[0151:atmold]2.0.co;2Mooshammer, M., Wanek, W., Zechmeister-Boltenstern, S., and Richter, A. (2014).Stoichiometric imbalances between terrestrial decomposer communities andtheir resources: mechanisms and implications of microbial adaptations to theirresources. Front. Microbiol. 5:22. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2014.00022Nicolardot, B., Recous, S., and Mary, B. (2001). Simulation of C and Nmineralisation during crop residue decomposition: a simple dynamic modelbased on the C: N ratio of the residues. Plant Soil 228, 83–103.Osono, T. (2017). Leaf litter decomposition of 12 tree species in a subtropical forestin Japan. Ecol. Res. 32, 413–422. doi: 10.1007/s11284-017-1449-0Osono, T., and Takeda, H. (2004). Accumulation and release of nitrogen andphosphorus in relation to lignin decomposition in leaf litter of 14 tree species.Ecol. Res. 19, 593–602. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1703.2004.00675.xOsono, T., and Takeda, H. (2005). Decomposition of organic chemical componentsin relation to nitrogen dynamics in leaf litter of 14 tree species in a cooltemperate forest. Ecol. Res. 20, 41–49. doi: 10.1007/s11284-004-0002-0Parton, W. J., Scurlock, J. M. O., Ojima, D. S., Gilmanov, T. G., Scholes, R. J.,Schimel, D. S., et al. (1993). Observations and modeling of biomass and soilorganic-matter dynamics for the grassland biome worldwide. Glob. Biogeochem.Cycles 7, 785–809. doi: 10.1029/93gb02042Ramirez, K. S., Craine, J. M., and Fierer, N. (2012). Consistent eﬀects of nitrogenamendments on soil microbial communities and processes across biomes. Glob.Change Biol. 18, 1918–1927. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2486.2012.02639.xSainte-Marie, J., Barrandon, M., Saint-André, L., Gelhaye, E., Martin, F., andDerrien, D. (2021). C-STABILITY an innovative modeling framework toleverage the continuous representation of organic matter. Nat. Commun.12:810. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-21079-6Schimel, J. P., and Weintraub, M. N. (2003). The implications of exoenzyme activityon microbial carbon and nitrogen limitation in soil: a theoretical model. SoilBiol. Biochem. 35, 549–563. doi: 10.1016/s0038-0717(03)00015-4Schleuss, P.-M., Widdig, M., Heintz-Buschart, A., Guhr, A., Martin, S., Kirkman,K., et al. (2019). Stoichiometric controls of soil carbon and nitrogen cyclingafter long-term nitrogen and phosphorus addition in a mesic grassland inSouth Africa. Soil Biol. Biochem. 135, 294–303. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.05.018Shimizu, M., Yuda, N., Nakamura, T., Tanaka, H., and Wariishi, H. (2005).Metabolic regulation at the tricarboxylic acid and glyoxylate cycles of the lignin-degrading basidiomycete Phanerochaete chrysosporium against exogenousaddition of vanillin. Proteomics 5, 3919–3931. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200401251Sinsabaugh, R. L., Carreiro, M. M., and Repert, D. A. (2002). Allocation ofextracellular enzymatic activity in relation to litter composition. N deposition,and mass loss. Biogeochemistry 60, 1–24. doi: 10.1023/A:1016541114786Sistla, S. A., Rastetter, E. B., and Schimel, J. P. (2014). Responses of a tundrasystem to warming using SCAMPS: a stoichiometrically coupled, acclimatingmicrobe-plant-soil model. Ecol. Monogr. 84, 151–170. doi: 10.1890/12-2119.1Soares, M., and Rousk, J. (2019). Microbial growth and carbon use eﬃciency in soil:links to fungal-bacterial dominance, SOC-quality and stoichiometry. Soil Biol.Biochem. 131, 195–205. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.01.010Spohn, M. (2015). Microbial respiration per unit microbial biomass depends onlitter layer carbon-to-nitrogen ratio. Biogeosciences 12, 817–823. doi: 10.5194/bg-12-817-2015Spohn, M. (2016). Element cycling as driven by stoichiometric homeostasis of soilmicroorganisms. Basic Appl. Ecol. 17, 471–478. doi: 10.1016/j.baae.2016.05.003Spohn, M., Klaus, K., Wanek, W., and Richter, A. (2016a). Microbial carbon useeﬃciency and biomass turnover times depending on soil depth–implicationsfor carbon cycling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 96, 74–81. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.01.016Spohn, M., Pötsch, E. M., Eichorst, S. A., Woebken, D., Wanek, W., and Richter, A.(2016b). Soil microbial carbon use eﬃciency and biomass turnover in a long-term fertilization experiment in a temperate grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 97,168–175. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.03.008Spohn, M., and Widdig, M. (2017). Turnover of carbon and phosphorus in themicrobial biomass depending on phosphorus availability. Soil Biol. Biochem.113, 53–59. doi: 10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.05.017Talbot, J. M., and Treseder, K. K. (2012). Interactions among lignin, cellulose,and nitrogen drive litter chemistry-decay relationships. Ecology 93, 345–354.doi: 10.1890/11-0843.1van Bodegom, P. (2007). Microbial maintenance: a critical review on itsquantiﬁcation. Microb. Ecol. 53, 513–523. doi: 10.1007/s00248-006-9049-5Van Meeteren, M. J. M., Tietema, A., and Westerveld, J. W. (2007). Regulation ofmicrobial carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus transformations by temperatureand moisture during decomposition of Calluna vulgaris litter. Biol. Fertil. Soils44, 103–112. doi: 10.1007/s00374-007-0184-zVoriskova, J., Dobiasova, P., Snajdr, J., Vanek, D., Cajthaml, T., Santruckova, H.,et al. (2011). Chemical composition of litter aﬀects the growth and enzymeproduction by the saprotrophic basidiomycete Hypholoma fasciculare. FungalEcol. 4, 417–426. doi: 10.1016/j.funeco.2011.03.005Wardle, D. A. (1998). Controls of temporal variability of the soil microbial biomass:a global-scale synthesis. Soil Biol. Biochem. 30, 1627–1637. doi: 10.1016/s0038-0717(97)00201-0Wutzler, T., Zaehle, S., Schrumpf, M., Ahrens, B., and Reichstein, M. (2017).Adaptation of microbial resource allocation aﬀects modelled long term soilorganic matter and nutrient cycling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 115, 322–336. doi:10.1016/j.soilbio.2017.08.031Zhang, H., Goll, D. S., Manzoni, S., Ciais, P., Guenet, B., and Huang, Y. (2018).Modeling the eﬀects of litter stoichiometry and soil mineral N availability onsoil organic matter formation using CENTURY-CUE (v1.0). Geosci. Model Dev.11, 4779–4796. doi: 10.5194/gmd-11-4779-2018Conﬂict of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in theabsence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as apotential conﬂict of interest.The handling editor declared a past co-authorship with one of the author BL.Copyright © 2021 Manzoni, Chakrawal, Spohn and Lindahl. This is an open-accessarticle distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License(CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, providedthe original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the originalpublication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. Nouse, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.Frontiers in Forests and Global Change | www.frontiersin.org 23 June 2021 | Volume 4 | Article 686945