Multi-scale geospatial agroecosystem modeling: A case study on theinﬂuence of soil data resolution on carbon budget estimatesXuesong Zhanga,⁎,R i t v i kS a h a j p a lb, David H. Manowitza, Kaiguang Zhaoc, Stephen D. LeDucd,M i nX ue,Wei Xiongf,A i p i n gZ h a n gf, Roberto C. Izaurraldea,b, Allison M. Thomsona, Tristram O. Westa, Wilfred M. PostgaJoint Global Change Research Institute, Paci ﬁc Northwest National Laboratory and University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20740, USAbDepartment of Geographical Sciences, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20740, USAcSchool of Environment and Natural Resources, The Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center, Ohio State University, Wooster, OH 44691, USAdU.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Center for Environmental Assessment, Arlington, VA 22202, USAeEarth System Science Interdisciplinary Center, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20740, USAfInstitute of Environment and Sustainable Development in Agriculture, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, ChinagEnvironmental Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 37831, USAHIGHLIGHTS•Spatially-explicit modeling of agroecosystems at a spatial resolution of 56 m for Iowa, USA.•SSURGO- and STATSGO-derived cropland carbon ﬂuxes substantially differ from each other at the county and grid scales.•Pronounced difference in amount and distribution between marginal lands identi ﬁed with different soil dataabstract article infoArticle history:Received 1 November 2013Received in revised form 24 January 2014Accepted 25 January 2014Available online 19 February 2014Keywords:Climate changeNet Ecosystem ProductionEPICParallel computingSpatial resolutionSSURGOSTATSGOThe development of effective measures to stabilize atmospheric CO 2concentration and mitigate negative impactsof climate change requires accurate quanti ﬁcation of the spatial variation and magnitude of the terrestrial carbon(C)ﬂux. However, the spatial pattern and strength of terrestrial C sinks and sources remain uncertain. In thisstudy, we designed a spatially-explicit agroecosystem modeling system by integrating the Environmental PolicyIntegrated Climate (EPIC) model with multiple sources of geospatial and surveyed datasets (including crop typemap, elevation, climate forcing, fertilizer application, tillage type and distribution, and crop planting and harvest-ing date), and applied it to examine the sensitivity of cropland C ﬂux simulations to two widely used soil data-bases (i.e. State Soil Geographic —STATSGO of a scale of 1:250,000 and Soil Survey Geographic —SSURGO of ascale of 1:24,000) in Iowa, USA. To ef ﬁciently execute numerous EPIC runs resulting from the use of high resolu-tion spatial data (56 m), we developed a parallelized version of EPIC. Both STATSGO and SSURGO led to similarsimulations of crop yields and Net Ecosystem Production (NEP) estimates at the State level. However, substantialdifferences were observed at the county and sub-county (grid) levels. In general, the ﬁne resolution SSURGO dataoutperformed the coarse resolution STATSGO data for county-scale crop-yield simulation, and within STATSGO,the area-weighted approach provided more accurate results. Further analysis showed that spatial distributionand magnitude of simulated NEP were more sensitive to the resolution difference between SSURGO andSTATSGO at the county or grid scale. For over 60% of the cropland areas in Iowa, the deviations betweenSTATSGO- and SSURGO-derived NEP were larger than 1 Mg C ha−1yr−1, or about half of the average croplandNEP, highlighting the signi ﬁcant uncertainty in spatial distribution and magnitude of simulated C ﬂuxes resultingfrom differences in soil data resolution.© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.1. IntroductionStabilizing concentrations of carbon dioxide (CO 2) and other green-house gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere is critical for mitigating potentialnegative impacts of future climate change ( IPCC, 2007 ). Agriculturallands not only provide essential ecosystem goods (such as food, live-stock, and ﬁber) for humankind but also have a signi ﬁcant potential tosequester carbon (C) and attenuate the increase rate of atmosphericCO2(Lal and Bruce, 1999; Allmaras et al., 2000; West and Post, 2002;Smith et al., 2007 ). The biological dynamics of managed landscapes af-fect the ﬂuctuations of atmospheric CO 2levels ( Moureaux et al., 2008 )and need to be considered when understanding, quantifying, andScience of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138 –150⁎Corresponding author at: 5825 University Research Court, Suite 1200, Joint GlobalChange Research Institute, Paci ﬁc Northwest National Laboratory and University ofMaryland, College Park, MD 20740, USA.E-mail address: xuesong.zhang@pnnl.gov (X. Zhang).0048-9697/$ –see front matter © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.01.099Contents lists available at ScienceDirectScience of the Total Environmentjournal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/scitotenvregulating the global C cycle ( Sus et al., 2010; West et al., 2013 ). Themagnitude, spatial and temporal patterns of terrestrial C sinks andsources remain uncertain and require further examination ( Denmanet al., 2007 ). Reﬁning the scale of sources and sinks is important forcredibly determining their variation and strength in different regionsor under varying land management systems ( Dolman et al., 2009 ).Due to the lack of extensive monitoring networks with suf ﬁcientnumbers of soil organic carbon (SOC) sampling sites and ﬂux towers,simulation models are regularly used by researchers and decisionmakers to estimate terrestrial C ﬂux (Saby et al., 2008; Ogle et al.,2010; West et al., 2010 ). As one of the most important drivers for terres-trial ecosystem models, soil properties (e.g. SOC, albedo, layer depth,texture, and bulk density) can vary substantially across spatial scalesamong different soil databases. In the U.S., the two most widely usedsoil databases are the State Soil Geographic (STATSGO, soils.usda.gov/survey/geography/statsgo ) and Soil Survey Geographic (SSURGO, soils.usda.gov/survey/geography/ssurgo) which are collected, stored, andmaintained by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural ResourcesConservation Service (NRCS) ( Soil Survey Staff, 2012 ). STATSGO mapsare compiled by generalizing more detailed (SSURGO) soil surveymaps ( USDA-NRCS National Soil Survey Center, 1995 ). SSURGO allowsmuch ﬁner scale soil unit identi ﬁcation (1:24,000) than STATSGO(1:250,000). Although both databases were compiled by USDA-NRCS,pronounced differences have been reported when using SSURGO andSTATSGO to derive SOC stocks at local and regional scales. Davidsonand Lefebvre (1993) compared SOC stock estimates derived fromSSURGO and STATSGO in the Old Orchard Beach Quadrangle in Yorkand Cumberland Counties, Maine, and found that SSURGO estimated13% less SOC than STATSGO. Buell and Markewich (2004) demonstratedthat spatial patterns of SOC derived from SSURGO and STATSGO canvary substantially within a county in North Carolina. Wu et al. (2001)and Rasmussen (2006) also found noticeable deviations betweenSSURGO and STATSGO estimates of SOC at a county scale. Recently,Zhong and Xu (2011) showed that soil organic matter (SOM) fromSSURGO has a high correlation ( R2= 0.625; Legates and McCabe,1999 )w i t h ﬁeld observed SOM across 30 sites in Louisiana, whileSOM derived from STATSAGO did not ( R2= 0.013). They also showedthat total SOC stocks in Louisiana were 1.9 vs. 1.4 Pg C derived fromSSURGO and STATSGO, respectively. Mednick (2010) reviewed 18 pub-lications on comparing the use of STATSGO and SSURGO data in waterquality modeling, and concluded that higher resolution soil data moreoften provide greater accuracy for modeling hydrologic and water qual-ity parameters. Thus, the difference between STATSGO and SSURGO hassigniﬁcant implications for hydrologic, nutrients, and water qualitymodeling, and may represent an important source of uncertainty for es-timating terrestrial C budgets.Although STATSGO and SSURGO both have been used in estimatingand simulating terrestrial C budgets ( Paustian et al., 2002; West et al.,2010; West et al., 2013; Causarano et al., 2008; Zhang et al., 2010;Zhang et al., 2010 ), they involve more or less aggregation of STATSGOor SSURGO from their original resolution to a coarser level. For example,Paustian et al. (2002) reported results at the state level, West et al.(2013) at the county scale, and Causarano et al. (2008) at a 1600 mresolution. However, the difference in C estimates arising from usingSTATSGO or SSURGO has not been examined in a spatially-explicit man-ner. As soil is the medium for plant growth, the pronounced variation ofsoil properties from changes in soil resolution is expected to lead to con-siderable deviations in simulations of the amount of C photosynthesizedinto vegetation and the dead plant material input into soil, thus intro-ducing signi ﬁcant uncertainties into terrestrial C ﬂux estimates. There-fore, the major objective of this research was to examine the effects ofusing STATSGO (both the dominant soil type and area-weighted ap-proach) and SSURGO, and their accompanying differences in soil dataresolution, on simulating C ﬂuxes on croplands.To examine this, we used the agroecosystem model EnvironmentalPolicy Integrated Climate (EPIC) ( Williams, 1995; Izaurralde et al.,2006 ), which has been extensively tested for simulating SOC dynamicsand land –atmosphere C ﬂux on cropland (e.g. Izaurralde et al., 2006;He et al., 2006; Wang et al., 2005; Causarano et al., 2007, 2008;Apezteguía et al., 2009; Schwalm et al., 2010 ). In addition, EPIC isamong the models used to assess conservation effects of the Conserva-tion Reserve Program ( USDA-FSA, 2008; CRP, USDA-FSA, 2010 ). Wechose Iowa as the study area ( Fig. 1 ), as it is one of most intensively cul-tivated states in the U.S. and is the leading hotspot experiencing agricul-tural expansion in response to human needs of food and energy ( Secchiet al., 2011 ). Soils in Iowa are dominated by fertile Mollisols and A ﬁsols(over 90% of the lands) that contain high soil organic matter (onaverage N200 Mg SOC ha−1) and are mainly comprised of ﬁne particlesclassi ﬁed as ﬁne,ﬁne-loamy, and ﬁne-silty.In this study, built on a spatially-explicit integrative modeling frame-work (SEIMF, Zhang et al., 2010; Nichols et al., 2011 ), we developed aparallel computing modeling system to ef ﬁciently run EPIC at a highspatial resolution across large scales, thus allowing us to examine theimplications of soil map resolution on regional scale C balance analyses.The modeling system contains the following major functions: (1) itcombines multiple spatial layers (e.g. crop data layer (CDL, Johnsonand Mueller, 2010 ), county boundary, and soil maps from SSURGOand STATSGO) to derive spatially-explicit modeling units; (2) geo-references climate and crop management data to each unit and preparelocation speci ﬁci n p u t ﬁles for EPIC; (3) performs parallel implementa-tion of EPIC runs on all modeling units by simultaneously usinghundreds of processors; (4) automatically processes and compiles theoutputs of each EPIC run into an relational database; and (5) links theEPIC derived ecosystem variables to spatially-explicit units for visualiza-tion. We ran EPIC on each unit for a period from 1991 to 2008, withyears from 1991 to 1999 to initialize conditions, to derive simulation re-sults on crop yields and carbon results for analysis. We used both statis-tical methods and spatial maps to compare and illustrate the differencebetween simulations with SSURGO and STATSGO. As biofuels are prom-ising for reducing C emissions and marginal lands could offer potentialopportunities for large scale deployment of biofuel feedstocks ( Tilmanet al., 2006; Gelfand et al., 2013 ), we also employed a marginal landidenti ﬁcation example to illustrate differences between SSURGO andSTATSGO for analyses that require detailed spatial information. We dis-cuss the implications of these results for understanding the sensitivity ofmodel simulated C ﬂux to changes in soil data resolution.2. Materials and methods2.1. The EPIC modelEPIC is a comprehensive terrestrial ecosystem model capable of sim-ulating key biophysical and biogeochemical processes, such as plantgrowth and development, water balance, C and nutrient cycling, soilerosion, and greenhouse-gas emissions; and how these processes areinﬂuenced by climate conditions, landscape con ﬁgurations, soil proper-ties, and management practices ( Williams, 1995; Surendran Nair et al.,2012 ). The plant growth sub-model of EPIC is a revised version ofCrop Environment REsource Synthesis (CERES) ( Williams et al., 1989;Jones et al., 1991 ), which employs the concept of radiation-use ef ﬁcien-cy by which a fraction of daily photosynthetically-active solar radiationis intercepted by the plant canopy and converted into plant biomass.Daily gains in plant biomass are affected by vapor pressure de ﬁcits, at-mospheric CO2concentrations, and other environmental controls andstresses. Currently, EPIC is parameterized for approximately 120 plantspecies including food crops, native grasses, and trees. EPIC representsall salient terrestrial water cycling processes including snowmelt, sur-face runoff, in ﬁltration, soil water content, percolation, lateral ﬂow,water table dynamics, and evapotranspiration ( Williams, 1995 ). A mod-iﬁed version of the CENTURY C model ( Parton et al., 1994 )i su s e dt osimulate soil C and nitrogen (N) decomposition and transformation(Izaurralde et al., 2006 ). Soil C and N dynamics are in ﬂuenced by139 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150many factors and processes, such as soil texture, pH, crop yields,atmospheric N input, fertilizer and manure, and tillage, among others.The EPIC model has been extensively tested for crop yield across numer-ous sites around the world ( Gassman et al., 2007 ). Its capability to pre-dict SOC dynamics under different crop rotation and managementpractices has also been evaluated against numerous ﬁeld observations(e.g. Izaurralde et al., 2006, 2007; He et al., 2006; Causarano et al.,2008 ). Recent studies ( Schwalm et al., 2010; Zhang et al., 2013b )showed that the C algorithm in EPIC simulated well Net Ecosystem Pro-duction (NEP) of diverse agroecosystems, where NEP was calculated asthe net C sequestration from the atmosphere into plant biomass (or NetPrimary Productivity, NPP) minus the C emission through soil hetero-trophic respiration. When applying EPIC for simulating cropland C ﬂuxin Iowa, we borrowed the SOC cycling relevant parameters that havebeen tested in the aforementioned studies and further constrainedand veri ﬁed the model behavior with respect to NPP using countyscale crop yield data from USDA-NASS' Quick Stats ( quickstats.nass.usda.gov).2.2. Geospatial databaseFor spatially-explicit assessment of cropland C ﬂux across Iowa, weprocessed and compiled a series of geospatial databases that contain cli-mate, land use/land cover, soil, and topography data to de ﬁne spatialmodeling units and provide relevant parameters to drive the EPICmodel.2.2.1. SoilsThe SSURGO and STATSGO data were respectively used to de ﬁnespatially-explicit modeling units and derive soil type distribution mapand associated soil parameters for each map unit. For SSURGO, wedownloaded the vector SSURGO maps for each county in Iowa fromthe US Department of Agriculture (USDA) Geospatial Data Gateway(datagateway.nrcs.usda.gov ) and merged and converted them into araster format with a resolution of 56 m that is consistent with the landuse resolution. The STATSGO data compiled for the national scale Hy-drologic Unit Model of the United States (HUMUS) in support of USDAanalyses required for the 1997 Resources Conservation Act ( Srinivasanet al., 1998, 2010; Arnold et al., 1999 ) were used here and also convert-ed to a 56 m resolution. Soil properties processed for EPIC included thenumber of soil layers; layer depth; slope gradient and length; albedo,bulk density; pH; percent sand, silt, clay and coarse fragments; and per-cent organic C and total N.2.2.2. TopographyTo derive topographical information, we used data from the ShuttleRadar Topography Mission (SRTM), which produced a digital elevationmodel (DEM) for the region at a resolution of 30 m ( Farr et al., 2007 ).Elevation was used by EPIC for atmospheric pressure calculation.2.2.3. Climate dataEPIC requires daily weather information including daily temperature(maximum and minimum), precipitation, solar radiation, wind speed,and relative humidity. The hourly North-American Land Data Assimila-tion System 2 (NLDAS2, ldas.gsfc.nasa.gov/nldas/ ) climate forcing datawere employed to derive the daily weather input at an 8-km resolutionfor EPIC.2.2.4. Land use and land coverThe US National Agricultural Statistical Service' Cropland Data Layer(CDL, Johnson and Mueller, 2010 ) was used to develop a spatially-explicit map of crop rotations at a resolution of 56 m. We developedan algorithm to estimate crop rotation by combining and analyzingthe CDL data for years 2007 to 2010. Unique combinations of annualcrop rotations were aggregated into three dominant rotation classes(i.e. continuous corn, corn –soybean, and soybean –corn) that accountfor over 90% of the spatial and temporal crop patterns in Iowa. This sim-pliﬁcation helped to substantially reduce the burden of preparing man-agement ﬁles for EPIC for numerous modeling units, without leading tosigniﬁcant loss of land use information.2.3. Spatially-explicit representation of cropping systemsThe spatially-explicit integrative modeling framework (SEIMF,Zhang et al., 2010 ;Fig. 2 ) was employed to facilitate the processing oflarge quantities of spatial input data, de ﬁne homogenous spatialmodeling units (HSMUs) with the high-resolution data aforemen-tioned, geo-referencing climate and management data to each unit,and preparing input ﬁles for executing EPIC. The CDL derived croprotation map, SSURGO and STATSGO soil maps, 10-digit hydrologicunit, and county and state boundary maps were overlaid to de ﬁneHSMUs with unique combinations of the above ﬁve spatial layers.Similar to CDL, the HSMU map was gridded to a resolution of 56 mconsistency with the CDL maps. For each HSMU, we derived the averageelevation based on the SRTM. Each HSMU possesses a unique seriesof properties such as soils, crop rotation, terrain, and county. WeFig. 1. Location of the study region.140 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150prepared climate parameters for each HSMU by locating the closestNLDAS grid.As there were no readily available spatially-explicit fertilizer, tillage,crop planting and harvesting date data, we further developed severalprocedures to assign these key crop management practices to eachHSMU based on surveyed data at the county or state level. State levelannual N and phosphorus application rates over 1990 to 2008 were ob-tained from USDA ( USDA-ERS, 2013 ). Data gaps were ﬁlled with thevalue from the closest year. County scale data on fractions of tillagepractices were collected and compiled by the Conservation TechnologyInformation Center ( CTIC, 2007 ), which were re-processed into threecategories: conventional tillage, conservation tillage, and no-till andgap-ﬁlled by West et al. (2010) for 2000 –2008. In order to cover the en-tire simulation period (1990 –2008), we assumed that the spatial pat-tern of tillage practices for the initialization period (1990 –1999) wassimilar to that averaged over 2000 –2004. We also assumed that farmersapply no-till and conservation tillage to steep soils in order to preservesoil productivity and protect the environment. Therefore, we ﬁrstassigned no-till to the steepest modeling units, followed by conserva-tion tillage to modeling units with lower gradient slopes, and ﬁnallyconventional tillage to those remaining tabular soils. Planting and har-vesting dates and heat units required by corn ( Zea mays L.) and soybean(Glycine max [L.] Merr.) to reach maturity are important for accuratecrop growth and development prediction. We derived these data byusing the potential heat unit program available at swat.tamu.edu/software/potential-heat-unit-program/ and typical planting andharvesting dates of major crops in the U.S. provided by USDA-NASS(1997) . After processing the geospatial maps and deriving climate andmanagement data, each HSMU possesses multi-dimensional informationas illustrated in Fig. 2 . The spatially-explicit scheme employed here al-lows us to preserve the spatial details of land use and soil patterns,while making it ﬂexible for georeferencing climate data and crop man-agement practices.2.4. Deriving soil properties for spatially explicit modeling unitsBy alternatively using SSURGO and STATSGO maps, we derived twosets of modeling units for EPIC runs that allow us to examine the sensi-tivity of EPIC simulations to these two soil databases. As illustrated inFig. 3 , each map unit of STATSGO and SSURGO contains a series of soilcomponents. However, there is no information available about theexact location of each component, making it ambiguous in selectingone or multiple soil components to represent soil properties of aHSMU overlapping with a soil map unit. The average number of soilcomponents within one map unit of STATSGO is about ~18. This com-pares to ~2 –3 for SSURGO. On average, the dominant soil componentwithin each soil map unit is accounting for about 20% and 90% of thetotal area of the corresponding soil map unit for STATSGO andSSURGO, respectively. Much information is omitted if the dominantsoil type (the one with the largest area coverage) is used to representthe soil properties of a STATSGO map unit. In contrast, the dominantsoil type in a SSURGO map unit captures the majority of the soilFig. 2. Geospatial de ﬁnition of HSMU and associated major attributes.Adapted from Zhang et al., 2010 .141 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150properties of that map unit. Therefore, for the application of STATSGO,one question that immediately emerges concerns what are theimplications of using the dominant soil type vs. area-weightingsimulations using all soil components within a STATSGO map unit foragroecosystem modeling?To address this question, we used two schemes to process the simu-lations based on STATSGO: (1) STATSGO-dominant —a HSMU is as-sumed to overlap with only the dominant soil type of that HSMU' soilmap unit; and (2) STATSGO-weighted —each HSMU is assumed to over-lap with all soil components within that HSMU's soil map unit and isfurther divided into nsubunits with areas proportional to the areas ofthensoil types within the corresponding soil map unit. SOC and simu-lated crop yields and NEP across the nsubunits are area-weighted to de-rive aggregated estimates for a HSMU. The STATSGO-dominant schemeis the default in applying the Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT)model that has been widely used in assessing effects of agriculturalmanagement practices on crop productivity, soil quality, and waterquality in the U.S. ( swat.tamu.edu ), while the STATSGO-weightedscheme has rarely been evaluated.For SSURGO, we only assessed the SSURGO-dominant schemebecause (1) the dominant soil components covered over 90% of thesoil map units, and (2) missing values in soil properties in the SSURGOdatabase make it dif ﬁcult to construct a consistent framework forperforming an area-weighted analysis. In some SSURGO soil mapunits, the ﬁrst dominant soil type had missing values, and we thereforeselected the second or even the third dominant soil type to representthat soil map unit. Overall, the selected SSURGO dominant soil typesaccounted for approximately 91% of the total area of the combinedmap units.2.5. Parallel implementation of EPICIt is computationally expensive to execute EPIC for a large number ofmodeling units. Each EPIC run in Iowa took about 10 s. Were the runsimplemented serially, the time required for completing the entire EPICruns would have been 486 h when using SSURGO (175,184 runs) and517 h when using STATSGO. As each EPIC run generates at leastthree output ﬁles, the subsequent processing and analysis of EPICoutputs will additionally cost signi ﬁcant amount of computationalresources. Therefore, we alleviated the computational burden byadapting the parallel computing software developed by Zhang et al.(2013a) for parallel EPIC implementation, which is referred to asParallel-EPIC hereafter. Parallel-EPIC combines Python ( python.org ),mpi4py ( Dalcin et al., 2011 ), OpenMPI ( www.open-mpi.org ),and PostgreSQL ( www.postgresql.org ) to simultaneously employmultiple processors to execute EPIC runs and derive and upload simula-tion variables into a relational PostgresQL database for further dataanalysis.Combining Python with OpenMPI through mpi4py enables Parallel-EPIC to simultaneously submit jobs to processors distributed across acomputing cluster in a Master –slave con ﬁguration ( Zhang et al.,2013a ;Fig. 4 ). Parallel-EPIC ﬁrst identi ﬁes a Master processor amongthe processors allocated to the submitted job, which splits the entireEPIC runs into Mfolders. Based on our experiments, Parallel-EPIC ismuch more ef ﬁcient when Mis large, as ﬁle related operations aremore efﬁcientin folders with smaller numbers of existing ﬁles. Next,the Master processor sends commands to the mslaves to execute EPICand process its outputs in parallel for the ﬁrst n folders. This procedureis repeated until all Mfolders are treated. We used the EvergreenFig. 3. Schematic illustration of the association between spatial soil map unit, soil components, and soil horizon properties and the difference between STATSGO and SSURGO in spatialresolution. (MUKEY is the id of each unique soil map unit; COKEY identi ﬁes the soil components in each map unit; COMPCCT is the area percentage; HYDGRP represents soil hydrologicgroup; Each COKEY is linked to multiple CHKEYs that contain soil horizon properties.).142 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150computing cluster hosted by the Paci ﬁc Northwest National Laboratoryand University of Maryland ( evergreen.umd.edu ) as the platform forour model simulations. Its con ﬁguration and capacity have beendetailed in Zhang et al. (2013a) . Although Evergreen has over 2000 pro-cessors, we only employed 200 because of an input/output (I/O) bottle-neck resulting from intensi ﬁed resource competition and increasedcommunication cost between computing nodes when larger numberof processors is used. We estimated that Parallel-EPIC led to a 19-foldimprovement in the ef ﬁciency of implementing EPIC when comparedto a serial implementation.3. Results and discussion3.1. SOC stocks estimated using STATSGO and SSURGOWe derived SOC stocks on croplands in Iowa using both STATSGOand SSURGO databases. The calculated average entire soil pro ﬁle SOCstocks were 245.7, 231.6, and 229.5 Mg C ha−1for SSURGO, STATSGO-dominant, and STATSGO-weighted, respectively. As STATSGO mapswere compiled by generalizing more detailed (SSURGO) soil surveymaps, here we used SSURGO as the benchmark for comparison. Com-pared with SSURGO, the STATSGO-dominant and STATSGO-weightedschemes slightly underestimate SOC stock on the 8,799,949 ha croplandin Iowa by 5.6 (or 124 Tg C) and 6.6% (or 142 Tg C), respectively.With different databases and schemes, we also obtained spatial SOCstock maps with notable difference in spatial patterns ( Fig. 5 ). Forexample, the spatial map derived with STATSGO-dominant showsthe area with the highest SOC intensity in north-east Iowa, whileSTATSGO-weighted and SSURGO identi ﬁed the area with the highestSOC intensity in north central Iowa. As compared with the spatial distri-bution of SSURGO SOC, STATSGO-weighted and STATSGO-dominanthadR2values of 0.8 and 0.27, respectively. In general, the spatial patternof SOC derived from STATSGO-weighted is close to that of SSURGO;while there is substantial spatial discrepancy between STATSGO-dominant and SSURGO. In addition, the STATSGO-dominant andSTATSGO-weighted schemes resulted in SOC stock maps exhibiting ap-parent differences in spatial pattern, as evidenced by a R2value of 0.5that indicates 50% disagreement in SOC spatial variation betweenthese two spatial maps.These differences in SOC distributions are well illustrated at the localscale in Franklin County, Iowa ( Fig. 5 ). Clearly, SSURGO preserves moreheterogeneous details than the two STATSGO based schemes. Contrast-ing spatial patterns of SOC were also observed. SSURGO estimatedhigher SOC intensity in the west of the county, while STATSGO-dominant estimated higher SOC intensity in the northeast part. In addi-tion, STATSGO-weighted lost much spatial variability in comparison toboth SSURGO and STATSGO-dominant. Although the three schemes de-rived similar SOC estimates at the state level, the local scale analysishighlights the substantial divergence between their spatial SOC pat-terns, which represents an important source of uncertainty for carbonbalance simulation.3.2. Sensitivity of carbon ﬂux simulations to different soil dataEPIC simulated crop yield of corn and soybean averaged over2000 –2008 at the county scale was compared with national inventorydata from USDA-NASS' Quick Stats ( quickstats.nass.usda.gov ;Table 1 ).State level average crop yield matched well with NASS observations,with relative errors b5% for all scenarios. Simulated corn yield of allthree scenarios had a relative error b20% for most counties and a rela-tive error less than 10% for ~70% of the counties. EPIC's performancefor soybean was slightly lower, with 75 –81% counties with a relativeerror b20% and 32 –48% counties with a relative error b10%. The smallbiases in simulated corn and soybean yields are indicative of the satis-factory performance of EPIC for simulating biomass growth on croplandin Iowa. As crop yield is directly determined by the total biomassFig. 4. Diagram of parallel execution of EPIC with a Master –slave con ﬁguration.143 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150production (or NPP), it is reasonable to ascertain that EPIC capably sim-ulated NPP thereby indicating that EPIC can serve as a useful tool forproviding insights into the sensitivity of C budget modeling to soildata resolution.Although all three soil datasets resulted in similar simulations of cropyield at the state level, we observed varying performances for capturingspatial variance at the county scale. SSURGO explained the highestamount of variation of observed spatial patterns in corn and soybeanyields, followed by STATSGO-weighted and ﬁnally STATSGO-dominant,explaining the least. In addition, SSURGO simulated crop yield has similaror higher percentage of counties with relative errors less than 10 or 20%in comparison to STATSGO-dominant and STATSGO-weighted. Overall,SSURGO slightly outperformed STATSGO-weighted and both of themwere much better than STATSGO-dominant in terms of capturing spatialvariability of observed crop yields.As SOC content is closely related to many important soil properties(such as texture), the remarkable difference in SOC content and its spa-tial distribution between SSURGO and STATSGO was expected to havesigniﬁcant implications for agroecosystem modeling with respect tocrop productivity and C balance. On average, estimated state level NEPwas−2383,−2437, and −2441 kg C ha−1yr−1for SSURGO,STATSGO-dominant, and STATSGO-weighted, respectively. Thesevalues are close to the range of annual cropland NEP ( −2912 to−4076 kg C ha−1yr−1) in Iowa estimated with an inventory methodFig. 5. Spatial distribution of SOC intensity over croplands in Iowa derived using (a) SSURGO, (b) STATSGO-weighted, and (c) STATSGO-dominant. These three maps for Franklin County,Iowa, are used to illustrate the difference between spatial SOC distributions derived from the three schemes at the local scale.144 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150(West et al., 2010 ), corroborating the credibility of the high-resolutionagroecosystem modeling system for quantifying regional-scale Cbalance. Similar to the SOC analysis, the state level NEP simulatedwith different soil data did not much differ from each other.We further examined the NEP maps at the county and grid scales,and found pronounced differences in EPIC-simulated NEP using thethree soil datasets ( Fig. 6 ). In general, the spatial patterns of NEPcorrespond well to those of SOC intensity ( Figs. 5 and 6 ). Thus ourspatial analyses of NEP and SOC stocks led to similar results. Withthe SSURGO estimated NEP as a baseline, STATSGO-dominant andSTATSGO-weighted schemes resulted in R2values of 0.21 and 0.8, re-spectively, con ﬁrming that the STATSGO-dominant scheme has led toas i g n i ﬁcant loss of spatial details of soil data and in turn alters modelingoutcomes at the local scale. The two STATSGO based schemes also ex-hibited signi ﬁcant difference in spatial NEP estimation, as indicated bythe low spatial correlation (a R2value of 0.44 between them). Thethree maps for Franklin County illustrate the variation in the spatial pat-terns of NEP estimates derived from the different soil data.To quantitatively measure the difference between the NEP maps, wecalculated three spatial maps by subtracting NEP estimated with onescheme from that with another scheme ( Fig. 7 ). As compared withSSURGO, for most cropland areas in Iowa ( N60%), both STATSGO-weighted and STATSGO-dominant underestimated or overestimatedNEP by more than 1 Mg C ha−1yr−1, which is about half of the averagecropland NEP across Iowa. In Franklin County, the percentage of areawith deviations larger than 1 Mg C ha−1yr−1was greater than 70%.The NEP difference between the two STATSGO based schemes is notas prominent as that between SSRURGO and STATSGO. Only about12.5% of the total cropland had deviations larger than 1 Mg ha−1yr−1.However, we still identi ﬁed over 30% area with deviations larger than0.5 Mg ha−1yr−1. Overall, the local scale analysis emphasizes the prom-inent deviations between NEP estimated with different soil data.3.3. An example of using SSURGO and STATSGO to identify marginal landsHere, we used both SSURGO and STATSGO to identify marginal agri-cultural lands, a critical ﬁrst step in modeling biomass production forcellulosic biofuels. Marginal lands have relatively low crop productivitydue to diverse limiting factors, such as edaphic and climatic limitations.On the other hand, these lands are often suitable for grasses, short-rotation tree crops or other perennial vegetation with persistent rootsthat are better adapted to low-nutrient, erodible or droughty soils(Gelfand et al., 2013 ), thereby well suited for producing biomassfeedstocks for advanced cellulosic biofuel. We followed Gelfandet al. (2013) to de ﬁne marginal lands as rural lands falling into LandCapability Classes (LCCs) V –VII with slope gradients of b20% undernonforested vegetation. LCC describes land classes on the basis ofuse limitation such as erosion risk, soil depth, wetness and slope(Klingebiel and Montgomery, 1961 ). There are eight LCCs, rangingfrom class I (lands without any limitations for agricultural use) to classVIII (lands with severe limitations). Fig. 8 illustrates the distributionsof marginal croplands in Iowa identi ﬁed with SSURGO and STATSGO.SSURGO, STATSGO-weighted, and STATSGO-dominant identi ﬁed129,677, 221,963, and 152,179 ha marginal cropland, respectively.STATSGO-weighted almost doubled the area of marginal croplandsidentiﬁ ed with SSURGO. Although STATSGO-dominant estimated simi-lar amount of marginal cropland to SSURGO, its pattern matched poorlywith that estimated by SSURGO. The two STATSGO based marginalcropland maps exhibited marked differences in area and distribution.Clearly, using STATSGO to identify marginal lands could result in signif-icantly biased estimates of the availability of marginal lands and wherethey are located, leading to unrealistic assessments of the capacity ofthese lands for biofuel production and the potential environmental out-comes. Much care should be taken when using STATSGO for spatialanalyses that require detailed spatial information.3.4. DiscussionAs the rate of C ﬂux between land and atmosphere is in ﬂuenced bymany interacting factors (such as terrain characteristics, soil properties,land use history, and management practices) varying at a local scale oftens to hundreds of m2(Houghton et al., 2009 ), spatially-explicitmodeling approaches have been increasingly embraced by the commu-nity to reduce the scale of C sink/source identi ﬁcation and quanti ﬁca-tion, and understand the vulnerability of C stocks to future conditions.Both STATSGO and SSURGO are widely used in ecological modeling inthe U.S. For C budget assessment, STATSGO has been employed inprevious studies (e.g. West et al., 2010 ), while SSURGO has rarelybeen applied across large scales in a spatially explicit way. In this inves-tigation, we examined the implications of using STATSGO and SSURGOfor estimating spatially explicit C balances.For SOC stocks on cropland, STATSGO and SSURGO providedvery similar estimates at the state level with small differences around5–6%. EPIC simulated NEP based on STATSGO and SSURGO were alsoclose to each other at the state level. These results indicate that, forlarge scale C budget assessments, STATSGO can provide credible results,even when only the dominant soil type within each soil map unit wasused. This is because STATSGO maps are compiled by generalizingmore detailed (SSURGO) soil survey maps ( USDA-NRCS National SoilSurvey Center, 1995 ). When aggregated to the state level, high consis-tency is reached between STATSGO and SSURGO.However, at grid and county scales, substantial deviations betweenSSURGO and STATSGO were observed, especially when only the domi-nant STATSGO soil component was selected. At the county scale, SOCand NEP estimated with STATSGO-weighted explained over 80% of thevariation with SSURGO, while STATSGO-dominant only account forabout 20% of the SSURGO spatial variability. The two schemes of usingSTATSGO also exhibited substantial differences in estimating C budgets,as indicated by the low R2of only about 50%. At the local scale (56 m),the two STATSGO based schemes either underestimate or overestimateNEP by at least 1 Mg ha−1yr−1for over 60% of the croplands in Iowa.Overall, spatial analyses of C budgets derived from different soil dataemphasize that using STATSGO might result in signi ﬁcant biases in spa-tial patterns and magnitude of C budgets as compared with thoseTable 1Comparison between crop yields simulated by EPIC and reported by USDA-NASS.Corn SoybeanAverage yieldaR2bP10c(%)P20d(%)Average yield R2P10(%)P20(%)USDA-NASS 9.21 – 2.99 –SSURGO 9.53 0.38 77 98 3.12 0.16 48 81STATSGO-dominant 9.58 0.29 69 98 3.11 0.12 32 75STATSGO-weighted 9.48 0.38 71 100 3.08 0.15 34 77aArea weighted average of multi-year average crop yield across all counties in Iowa (Mg dry matter ha−1yr−1).bSpatial correlation between county scale EPIC simulated and NASS observed crop yield.cPercentage of counties with relative error less than 10%.dPercentage of counties with relative error less than 20%.145 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150predicted by SSURGO. In addition, the use of coarse resolution STATSGOdata with the signi ﬁcant loss of spatial details of soil properties, pre-cludes accurate spatial analyses at farm levels, such as identi ﬁcation ofmarginal lands for biofuel production ( Gelfand et al., 2013 ). Collectively,SSURGO is more preferable to STATSGO for county and local scale as-sessment of C balance. We also note that only choosing the dominantsoil type in each STATSGO polygon will cause further loss of spatialsoil information, thus resulting in further reduction in accuracy.The STATSGO-dominant scheme is popular in ecological modeling.For example, most of the publications of applying SWAT in the U.S.employed this scheme ( www.card.iastate.edu/swat_articles ). Our com-parison shows that STATSGO-weighted achieved C simulations muchcloser to those based on SSURGO, STATSGO-weighted is preferred toSTATSGO-dominant. The transition from STATSGO-dominant toSTATSGO-weighted does not demand extra data preparation, butwould greatly increase the computing and post-processing work load.On average each STATSGO polygon contains about 18 soil components,leading to the increase of the number of EPIC runs from 11,309 to186,293 in the case of this study. It is important to note that the compu-tational burden of running the STATSGO-weighted scheme is evenhigher than that of using SSURGO, which required 167,817 EPIC runs.However, although a gridded version of SSURGO was recently released(Soil Survey Staff, 2013 ), it does not provide a complete set of parame-ters that are necessary for driving process based agroecosystem modelsFig. 6. Spatial distribution of NEP over croplands in Iowa derived using (a) SSURGO, (b) STATSGO-weighted, and (c) STATSGO-dominant. These three maps for Franklin County, Iowa, areused to illustrate the difference between spatial NEP distributions derived from the three schemes at the local scale.146 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150like EPIC. Deriving soil parameters from the SSURGO database demandsextra data processing and compilation time, especially for large scalesimulations. Therefore, we suggest carefully balancing tradeoffs ofusing SSURGO and the two STATSGO based schemes and selecting theone that meets the accuracy objective with affordable cost of time andcomputation resources. For example, if the objective is to estimate Cbudgets at the state level, using STATSGO-dominant does not lead tomuch accuracy reduction, while demanding less than 10% of the compu-tation cost of using SSURGO or STATSGO-weighted.As noted above, a major concern regarding applying SSURGOand the STATSGO-weighted scheme is the amount of time andcomputational resources they require. For the Iowa simulations, imple-mentation of EPIC would take more than two weeks with sequentialcomputing. With a simple linear extrapolation to the U.S. Midwest, run-ning EPIC with SSURGO and STATSGO-weighted might demand almosthalf a year. Spending so much time is often not allowed in order to meetproject timelines, let alone the signi ﬁcant additional work load of pre-paring input data and processing and analyzing model outputs. Whenmultiple scenarios are considered, the computational burden could befurther aggravated. The Parallel-EPIC developed here helped cut thecomputational burden by a factor of 19, making the EPIC implementa-tion affordable. In order to fully take advantage of the bene ﬁts of usingFig. 7. Spatial distributions of the difference between estimated NEP over croplands in Iowa. (a as SSURGO minus STATSGO-weighted; b as SSURGO minus STATSGO-dominant; c asSTATSGO-weighted minus STATSGO-dominant; The three maps for Franklin County in Iowa are used to illustrate the difference at the local scale).147 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150high resolution data for C budgets assessment at the local scale, we en-vision that the traditional way of sequentially running agroecosystemmodels will transition to advanced parallel computing systems thatcan employ the strength of supercomputers to alleviate the computa-tional burden.We performed the sensitivity tests using the EPIC model only be-cause of the intensive time requirements and the lack of readily avail-able tools to build similar high-resolution systems for other models.As agroecosystem models represent biophysical and biogeochemicalprocesses with diverse mechanisms and equations, this sensitivity todifferent soil data may vary substantially and deserves further research.In addition, our results were derived with only one combination ofclimate, land use, and crop management practice datasets. If othersources of data are acquired and embedded into our modeling systemto replace the datasets employed here, the uncertainty of the estimatedresponses of C ﬂux to soil resolution could be further ampli ﬁed. Notably,a wide range of future climate change scenarios and our incompleteunderstanding of how terrestrial C cycling will respond to new wateravailability, temperature, and photosynthesis conditions may furtherwiden the uncertainty of estimating C ﬂux under various managementpractices. A systematic analysis of the resolution sensitivity of C ﬂuxsimulations driven with diverse climate forcing, land use maps, andmanagement details deserves further exploration in the future, inorder to provide more credible assessment of the effectiveness of alter-native C sequestration practices as climate change mitigation is becom-ing more imminent.4. ConclusionsAccurate quanti ﬁcation of terrestrial C cycling is critical for designingeffective policies and management practices to stabilize atmosphericCO2concentrations. Using high resolution spatial data has been promot-ed for reducing the uncertainty of the magnitude, spatial and temporalpatterns of terrestrial C sinks and sources. In this study, we examinedthe sensitivity of EPIC, a widely used agroecosystem model, to differentsoil data of varying spatial resolutions. STATSGO (weighted- anddominant-approaches) and SSURGO were employed as input data tosimulate crop yield and NEP. The computational burden of usingSTATSGO-weighted or SSURGO can be eased by adopting a parallel pro-cessing system as demonstrated here.By alternatively implementing EPIC with SSURGO and STATSGO andanalyzing simulation results, we found that EPIC simulated crop yieldand NEP were not sensitive to soil data resolution at the state level, butexhibited substantial deviations from each other at the county andlocal scales. In general, SSURGO performed slightly better for crop yieldsimulation than STATSGO-weighted. STATSGO-dominant achievedmuch poorer county scale crop yield simulation, because the dominantsoil components on average cover only about 20% of area of the corre-sponding STATSGO polygons. Using SSURGO as the benchmark, wefound that NEP simulated with the two STATSGO schemes obtainedclose NEP at the state level, but deviated substantially at the countyand local scales. At the grid (56 m) scale, for most cropland areas (over60%), the deviations were larger than 1 Mg C ha−1yr−1or about halfof the average cropland NEP across Iowa. Further comparison in theFranklin County clearly demonstrated the mismatch of NEP patterns de-rived with different soil data at the loc al scale. In addition, marked differ-ence was observed between the marginal lands identi ﬁed using SSURGOand STATSGO.Our results show that using coarse soil resolution data could lead tosigniﬁcant uncertainty of C budgets assessments at these local scales.STATSGO, particularly the STATSGO-dominant soil approach, is moresuitable for state-level applications requiring less computing cost,while employing the STATSGO-weighted soil approach or SSURGO isnecessary when local-scale accuracy is emphasized (e.g. assessment ofvariation and strength in C sink/source across spatial cropping systems).Overall, choosing between different soil datasets should be based on acareful assessment of tradeoffs between accuracy requirements, appli-cation scales, and available computational resources. The modelingtool and analyses presented here represent an advancement in exploringthe integration of mechanistic model, spatially-resolved data, surveyedmanagement data, and super computing resources for understandingand addressing uncertainty of cropland C budgets as in ﬂuenced by soilresolution, thereby contributing to effective C management.Conﬂict of interestThe authors identify no con ﬂict of interest including any ﬁnancial,personal or other relationships with other people or organizations with-in three years of beginning the submitted work that could inappropri-ately in ﬂuence, or be perceived to in ﬂuence, the submitted work.Fig. 8. Marginal lands identi ﬁed with different soil data (a) SSURGO, (b) STATSGO-weighted, and (c) STATSGO-dominant.148 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150AcknowledgmentsWe sincerely appreciate the valuable comments provided by theanonymous reviewers, which greatly improved the quality of thispaper. This work was partially funded by the DOE Great Lakes BioenergyResearch Center (DOE BER Of ﬁce of Science DE-FC02-07ER64494, DOEBER Of ﬁce of Science KP1601050, DOE EERE OBP 20469-19145), NASA(NNH08ZDA001N and NNH12AU03I), and USDA (CSREES-2009-34263-19774 (G-1449-1) and NIFA-2010-34263-21075 (G-1470-3)).The views expressed here are those of the authors and do not necessar-ily represent the views or policies of the U.S. Environmental ProtectionAgency.ReferencesAllmaras RR, Schomberg HH, Douglas Jr CL, Dao TH. Soil organic carbon sequestration po-tential of adopting conservation tillage in U.S. croplands. J Soil Water Conserv2000;55:365 –73.Apezteguía HP, Izaurralde RC, Sereno R. Simulation study of soil organic matter dynamicsas affected by land use and agricultural practices in semiarid Córdoba, Argentina. SoilTillage Res 2009;102:101 –8.Arnold JG, Srinivasan R, Muttiah RS, Allen PM. Continental scale simulation of the hydro-logic balance1. JAWRA J Am Water Res Assoc 1999;35(5):1037 –51.Buell GR, Markewich HW. Data compilation, synthesis, and calculations used fororganic-carbon storage and inventory estimates for mineral soils of the MississippiRiver Basin. USGS Professional Paper 1686-A. Madison, WI: U.S. Geological Survey;2004.Causarano HJ, Shaw JN, Franzluebbers AJ, Reeves DW, Raper RL, Balkcom KS, et al. Simu-lating ﬁeld-scale soil organic carbon dynamics using EPIC. Soil Sci Soc Am J 2007;71:1174 –85.Causarano HJ, Doraiswamy PC, McCarty GW, Hat ﬁeld JL, Milak S, Stern AJ. EPIC modelingof soil organic carbon sequestration in croplands of Iowa. J Environ Qual 2008;37:1345 –53.CTIC (Conservation Technology Information Center). Crop residue management survey.West Lafayette, Indiana, USA: Conservation Technology Information Center; 2007.Dalcin LD, Paz RR, Kler PA, Cosimo A. Parallel distributed computing using python. AdvWater Resour 2011;34:1124 –39.Davidson EA, Lefebvre PA. Estimating regional carbon stocks and spatially covaryingedaphic factors using soil maps at three scales. Biogeochemistry 1993;22:107 –31.Denman KL, Brasseur G, Chidthaisong A, Ciais P, Cox PM, Dickinson RE, et al. Couplingbetween changes in the climate system and biogeochemistry. Climate change 2007:the physical science basis. Contribution of working group I to the fourth assessmentreport of the intergovernmental panel on climate change. Cambridge, UnitedKingdom and New York, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press; 2007.Dolman AJ, Gerbig C, Noilhan J, Sarrat C, Miglietta F. Detecting regional variability insources and sinks of carbon dioxide: a synthesis. Biogeosciences 2009;6:1015 –26.Farr TG, Rosen PA, Caro E, Crippen R, Duren R, Hensley S, et al. The shuttle radar topogra-phy mission. Rev Geophys 2007;45(2):RG2004.Gassman PW, Reyes MR, Green CH, Arnold JG. The soil and water assessment tool: histor-ical development, applications, and future research directions. Trans ASABE2007;50(4):1211 –50.Gelfand I, Sahajpal R, Zhang X, Izaurralde RC, Robertson GP. Sustainable bioenergy pro-duction from marginal lands in the US Midwest. Nature 2013;493:514 –7.He X, Izaurralde RC, Vanotti MB, Williams JR, Thomson AM. Simulating long-term cropproductivity and soil organic carbon dynamics with the EPIC model using datafrom Arlington, WI. J Environ Qual 2006;35:1608 –19.Houghton RA, Hall F, Goetz SJ. Importance of biomass in the global carbon cycle. JGeophys Res 2009;114:G00E03.http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1029/2009JG000935.IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). Climate change 2007: the physicalscience basis. Contribution of working group I to the fourth assessment report ofthe intergovernmental panel on climate change. In: Solomon S, Qin D, Manning M,Marquis M, Averyt K, Tignor MMB, Miller Jr HL, Chen Z, editors. Cambridge, UnitedKingdom and New York, NY, USA: Cambridge University Press; 2007.Izaurralde RC, Williams JR, McGill WB, Rosenberg NJ, Quiroga Jakas MC. Simulating soil Cdynamics with EPIC: model description and testing against long-term data. EcolModel 2006;192(3 –4):362 –84.Izaurralde RC, Williams JR, Post WM, Thomson AM, McGill WB, Owens L, et al. Long-termmodeling of soil C erosion and sequestration at the small watershed scale. ClimChange 2007;80:73 –90.http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1007/s10584-006-9167-6.Johnson DM, Mueller R. The 2009 crop data layer. Photogramm. Eng. Remote Sens.2010;76:1201 –5.Jones CA, Dyke PT, Williams JR, Kiniry JR, Benson VW, Griggs RH. EPIC: an operationalmodel for evaluation of agricultural sustainability. Agr Syst 1991;37:341 –50.Klingebiel AA, Montgomery PH. Land-capability classiﬁ cation. Issue 210 ofagriculture handbook, soil conservation s e r v i c e .U . S .D e p a r t m e n to fA g r i c u l t u r e ;196121.Lal R, Bruce JP. The potential of world cropland soils to sequester C and mitigate thegreenhouse effect. Environ Sci Pol 1999;2:177 –85.Legates DR, Gregory JM. Evaluating the use of “goodness of ﬁt”measures in hydrologicand hydroclimatic model validation. Water Res Res 1999;35(1):233 –41.Mednick AC. Does soil data resolution matter? State soil geographic database versus soilsurvey geographic database in rainfall –runoff modeling across Wisconsin. J SoilWater Conserv 2010;65(3):190 –9.Moureaux C, Debacq A, Hoyaux J, Suleau M, Tourneur D, Vancutsem F, et al. Carbon bal-ance assessment of a Belgian winter wheat crop ( Triticum aestivum L.). Glob. Chang.Biol. 2008;14:1353 –66.Nichols J, Kang S, Post WM, Wang D, Bandaru P, Manowitz D, et al. HPC-EPIC for high res-olution simulations of environmental and sustainability assessment. Comput ElectronAgric 2011;79(2):112 –5.Ogle SM, Breidt FJ, Easter M, Williams S, Killian K, Paustian K. Scale and uncertainty inmodeled soil organic carbon stock changes for US croplands using a process-basedmodel. Glob Chang Biol 2010;16:810 –22.Parton WJ, Ojima DS, Cole CV, Schimel DS. A general model for soil organic matterdynamics: sensitivity to litter chemistry, texture and management. In: Bryant RB,Arnold RW, editors. Quantitative modeling of soil forming processes. Madison, WI:Soil Science Society of America; 1994. p. 147 –67. [Special Publication 39].Paustian K, Brenner J, Killian K, Cipra J, Williams S, Elliott ET, et al. State-level analyses of Csequestration in agricultural soils. In: Kimble JM, et al, editors. Agricultural practicesand policies for carbon sequestration in soil. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press; 2002.p. 193 –204.Rasmussen C. Distribution of soil organic and inorganic carbon pools by biome and soiltaxa in Arizona. Soil Sci Soc Am J 2006;70(1):256 –65.Saby NPA, Bellamy PH, Morvan X, Arrouays D, Jones RJA, Verheijen FGA, et al. WillEuropean soil-monitoring networks be able to detect changes in topsoil organic car-bon content? Glob Chang Biol 2008;14:2432 –42.Schwalm CR, Williams CA, Schaefer K, Anderson R, Altaf Arain M, Baker I, et al. Amodel-data intercomparison of CO2exchange during a large scale drought event:results from the NACP site synthesis. J Geophys Res Biogeosci 2010;115:G00H05.http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1029/2009JG001229.Secchi S, Kurkalova L, Gassman PW, Hart C. Land use change in a biofuels hotspot: thecase of Iowa, USA. Biomass Bioenergy 2011;35(6):2391 –400.Smith P, Martino D, Cai Z, Gwary D, Janzen H, Kumar P, et al. Agriculture. In climatechange 2007: mitigation. Contribution of working group III to the fourth assessmentreport of the intergovernmental panel on climate change. In: Metz B, Davidson OR,Bosch PR, Dave R, Meyer LA, editors. Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York,NY, USA: Cambridge University Press; 2007.Soil Survey Staff. Soil survey geographic (SSURGO) database for [IOWA]. Available onlineathttp://soildatamart.nrcs.usda.gov ,2 0 1 2 [ v e r i ﬁed on August 20, 2013].Srinivasan R, Arnold JG, Jones CA. Hydrologic modeling of the united states with the soiland water assessment tool. Water Resour Dev 1998;14(3):315 –25.Srinivasan R, Zhang X, Arnold JG. SWAT ungauged: hydrological budget andcrop yield predictions in the Upper Mississippi River Basin. Trans ASABE2010;53(5):1533– 46.Surendran Nair S, Kang S, Zhang X, Miguez FE, Izaurralde RC, Post WM, et al. Bioenergycrop models: descriptions, data requirements, and future challenges. GCB Bioenergy2012;4(6):620 –33.Soil Survey Staff. Gridded Soil Survey Geographic (gSSURGO) Database for Iowa. UnitedStates Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service; 2013[Available online at http://datagateway.nrcs.usda.gov/ , veri ﬁed on September 24,2013].Sus O, Williams M, Bernhofer C, Beziat P, Buchmann N, Ceschia E, et al. A linked carboncycle and crop developmental model: description and evaluation against measure-ments of carbon ﬂuxes and carbon stocks at several European agricultural sites.Agric Ecosyst Environ 2010;139:402 –18.Tilman D, Hill J, Lehman C. Carbon-negative biofuels from low-input high-diversity grass-land biomass. Science 2006;314:1598 –600.USDA-ERS (Economic Research Service). Fertilizer use and price. Available at http://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/fertilizer-use-and-price.aspx#.UmluAvmkqpA , 2013[ver-iﬁed on October 24, 2013].USDA-FSA. Fact sheet: Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) bene ﬁts: water quality, soilproductivity and wildlife estimates. Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Agriculture,Farm Service Agency; 2008.USDA-FSA (United Department of Agriculture - Farm Service Agency). Conservation Re-serve Program Annual Summary and Enrollment Statistics FY 2010. Available athttp://www.fsa.usda.gov/Internet/FSA_File/annual2010summary.pdf , 2010[accessedon July 6, 2012].USDA-NASS (United States Department of Agriculture National Agricultural StatisticsService). Usual planting and harvesting dates for U.S. ﬁeld crops. Available at http://www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/Usual_Planting_and_Harvesting_Dates/uph97.pdf ,1997[accessed on Oct. 18, 2011].USDA-NRCS (United Department of Agriculture –National Resources ConservationService) National Soil Survey Center. Soil survey geographic (SSURGO) data basedata use information. Available at ftp://ftp.igsb.uiowa.edu/gis_library/Support_Data/Soils/SSURGO.PDF , 1995[veri ﬁed on September 23, 2013].Wang X, He X, Williams JR, Izaurralde RC, Atwood JD. Sensitivity and uncertainty analysesof crop productivity and soil organic carbon simulated with EPIC. Trans ASAE2005;48:1041 –54.West TO, Post WM. Soil organic carbon sequestration by tillage and crop rotation: a globaldata analysis. Soil Sci Soc Am J 2002;66:1930 –46.West TO, Brandt CC, Baskaran LM, Hellwinckel CM, Mueller R, Bernacchi CJ, et al. Croplandcarbon ﬂuxes in the United States: increasing geospatial resolution of inventory-based carbon accounting. Ecol Appl 2010;20(4):1074 –86.West TO, Brown ME, Duran RM, Ogle S, Moss RH. Deﬁnition, capabilities, and componentsof a terrestrial carbon monitoring system. Carbon Manag. 2013;4(4):413 –22.Williams JR. The EPIC model. In: Singh VP, editor. Computer models of watershedhydrology. Highlands Ranch, CO: Water Resources Publications; 1995. p. 909 –1000.149 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150Williams JR, Jones CA, Kiniry JR, Spanel DA. The EPIC crop growth model. Trans ASAE1989;32:497 –511.Wu J, Ransom MD, Kluitenberg GJ, Nellis MD, Seyler HL. Land-use management using asoil survey geographic database for Finney County, Kansas. Soil Sci Soc Am J2001;65(1):169 –77.Z h a n gX ,I z a u r r a l d eR C ,M a n o w i t zD H ,W e s tT O ,P o s tM A ,T h o m s o nA M ,e ta l .An integrated modeling framework to evaluate the productivity andsustainability of biofuel crop production. Glob Chang Biol Bioenergy 2010;2(5):258–77.Zhang X, Beeson P, Link R, Manowitz D, Izaurralde RC, Sadeghi A, et al. Efﬁcientmulti-objective calibration of a computationally intensive hydrologic model withparallel computing software in python. Environ Model Software 2013a;46:208 –18.Zhang X, Izaurralde RC, Arnold JG, Williams JR. Modifying the SWAT model to simulatecropland carbon ﬂux: model development and initial evaluation. Sci Total Environ2013b;463 –464:810 –22.Zhong B, Xu YJ. Scale effects of geographical soil datasets on soil carbon estimation inLouisiana, USA: a comparison of STATSGO and SSURGO. Pedosphere 2011;21(4):491–501.150 X. Zhang et al. / Science of the Total Environment 479 –480 (2014) 138– 150