PersPectivehttps:/ / doi.org/10.1038/s41561-020-0612-31Soil and Crop Science, School of Integrative Plant Science, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. 2Cornell Atkinson Center for Sustainability, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA. 3Institute for Advanced Study, T echnical University of Munich, Garching, Germany. 4Department of Marine Chemistry and Geochemistry, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, MA, USA. 5Department of Microbiology and Ecosystem Science, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 6Department of Crop and Soil Science, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR, USA. 7Department of Earth System Science, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 8Department of Physical Geography, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden. 9Bolin Centre for Climate Research, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden. 10Institute of Ecology and Environmental Sciences, CNRS-Sorbonne Université-IRD-UPEC-P7-INRA, Paris, France. 11Department Biogeochemical Integration, Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry, Jena, Germany. 12Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology, UC Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara, CA, USA. 13Climate and Ecosystem Sciences Division, Berkeley Lab, Berkeley, CA, USA. 14Climate and Global Dynamics Laboratory, T errestrial Sciences Section, National Center for Atmospheric Research, Boulder, CO, USA. 15Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO, USA. 16Chair of Soil Science, T echnical University of Munich, Freising, Germany. ✉e-mail: CL273@cornell.eduSoils contain the largest active reservoir of terrestrial organic carbon, which has the potential to exacerbate global warm -ing, but is also believed to offer a viable strategy for cli -mate change mitigation. The wide range of soil management and land-use changes put forward to increase soil carbon sequestration1 for the long term requires global-scale prediction of soil organic carbon persistence and vulnerabilities under novel climate condi-tions2. Such a global effort also requires the ability to quantify and accurately predict carbon retention at local to regional scales, while assessing the global potential and future risk from environmental change. However, we lack the theoretical framework to bridge the gap between the fine scales where carbon accrues and the large scales relevant for carbon-management policy3. This deficiency in understanding manifests itself in projections of soil carbon dynam -ics at regional to global scales that diverge greatly from each other and from observations4.We propose that soil organic carbon persistence can be under -stood based on functional complexity in the following three aspects: (1) molecular diversity, (2) spatial heterogeneity and (3) tempo-ral variability of the soil system. Understanding the responses of decomposition to changes in environment, soil properties and man-agement through the lens of functional complexity may provide the basis for developing models that explain and quantify soil carbon persistence without invoking the existence of the organic carbon forms with very long residence times that are prevalent in current approaches5,6. Rather, the proposed conceptual approach builds on and harmonizes known reactions of soil organic matter decomposi -tion that result from interactions of organic carbon with soil biota, minerals and environment7. It can inform the design of field experi -ments and new types of observations. New models should also iden -tify directions for better management of soils to sequester carbon and thereby mitigate climate change. To be successful, these models should borrow advances in scaling and modelling from engineer-ing and material science in combination with new and growing soil datasets that capture decomposition responses to changes in land use and cover, soil properties or climate. Such an approach would fulfil the policy need for what we suggest calling ‘models with intent’ , which enable us to raise organic carbon levels in soils where they are currently undersaturated, and to maintain maximal carbon levels in soil systems in ways that contribute to functional ecosystems and a healthy biosphere.Molecular diversityUntil recently, the chemical and physical characteristics of plant litter were perceived as the main control over decomposition in addition to moisture and temperature7; hence, predictions of decomposition are typically based upon litter nitrogen or lignin contents5,6. Meanwhile, in mineral soils, the concept of ‘chemical Persistence of soil organic carbon caused by functional complexityJohannes Lehmann   1,2,3 ✉, Colleen M. Hansel   4, Christina Kaiser   5, Markus Kleber   6, Kate Maher7, Stefano Manzoni   8,9, Naoise Nunan10, Markus Reichstein   11, Joshua P. Schimel12, Margaret S. T orn   13, William R. Wieder   14,15 and Ingrid Kögel-Knabner3,16Soil organic carbon management has the potential to aid climate change mitigation through drawdown of atmospheric carbon dioxide. T o be effective, such management must account for processes influencing carbon storage and re-emission at different space and time scales. Achieving this requires a conceptual advance in our understanding to link carbon dynamics from the scales at which processes occur to the scales at which decisions are made. Here, we propose that soil carbon persistence can be understood through the lens of decomposers as a result of functional complexity derived from the interplay between spatial and temporal variation of molecular diversity and composition. For example, co-location alone can determine whether a molecule is decomposed, with rapid changes in moisture leading to transport of organic matter and constraining the fitness of the microbial community, while greater molecular diversity may increase the metabolic demand of, and thus potentially limit, decomposition. This conceptual shift accounts for emergent behaviour of the microbial community and would enable soil carbon changes to be predicted without invoking recalcitrant carbon forms that have not been observed experimentally. Functional complexity as a driver of soil carbon persistence suggests soil management should be based on constant care rather than one-time action to lock away carbon in soils.NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 529PersPective NATure GeoScieNcerecalcitrance’ of plant and microbial material causing slow turnover times has been replaced in favour of a continuum model for soil organic carbon compounds8. Here we propose that the molecular diversity of the organic compounds (Fig. 1) rather than the mate -rial properties of individual compounds controls decomposition. For large molecules and particulate organic matter requiring extra-cellular enzymes for microbial uptake and metabolism, producing enzymes is energy intensive and is only sustainable if the payoff is energetically worthwhile9. Even metabolizing smaller, soluble mol -ecules that can be taken up directly, such as root exudates, may require diverse metabolic investments. Different requirements for metabolizing different molecules result not only from large differ-ences in molecular structures (for example, lignin versus cellulose) but also sometimes from molecules that are structurally similar (for example, ortho - versus para -benzoic acid)10.Consequently, beyond a certain point, a greater diversity of mol -ecules increases the cost of metabolism. Investments in using mol -ecules that are rare in the soil solution, because of low production rates or rapid adsorption, are energetically less rewarding11; thus, such molecules may remain in soil even if they are potentially easily metabolized. The magnitude of additional cost incurred with every additional microbial metabolic system depends on how closely related the metabolic pathways are10,11. Therefore, the greater the molecular diversity of available substrates, the greater the cost–ben -efit ratio associated with their assimilation12. Molecular diversity can increase decomposition rates, however, if one compound pro -vides the energy or nutrients needed to decompose another one, a process often referred to as priming. How to quantify diversity to predict whether changes in the concentrations of specific molecu-lar groups increase or decrease persistence of other molecules is not sufficiently understood. Equally uncertain is which molecular properties best capture the diversity characteristics that are relevant to organic carbon persistence, since elemental composition, oxida-tion state and molecular diversity do not increase in the same ways during decomposition13. In addition, the diversity of organic carbon binding to minerals also increases persistence14.A focus on molecular diversity may reconcile the divide between the scientific communities studying organic and mineral horizons15. This reconciliation is based on the increasing diversity of molecu -lar configurations from plants to litter to topsoil to subsoil16. Plant material comprises many copies of closely related molecules that make up structures of leaves or wood and dominate the substrate available to decomposers in litter and at the top of the mineral soil. Here, lower molecular diversity coupled to high concentrations of individual compounds facilitates both specialization and more effi-cient ‘investment strategies’ for soil biota17, which we argue supports faster decomposition (Fig. 1). With increasing decomposition and consumption of the most common molecules, molecular diversity increases18 and enhances the persistence of the remaining organic carbon14,19.Spatial heterogeneity and temporal variabilityLarge tracts of the soil-pore network are practically devoid of decomposers20, and the distribution and forms of organic matter are equally patchy at this scale21. Physical separation has for some time been invoked as an important stabilization mechanism22, emphasiz -ing occlusion within aggregates or encapsulation of easily mineral -izable organic matter within large organic molecules rather than the spatial distance between decomposer and substrate per se23. Here we propose that spatial heterogeneity alone can limit decomposition (Fig. 1): for decomposition to proceed, degraders or their enzymes must come into contact with substrate. This aligns with observed carbon turnover times on the order of months24, shorter than the assumed long-term sequestration of carbon within soil aggregates, and may therefore not be the sole reason for carbon persistence. Aggregation (as well as adsorption) may also help in promoting spatial heterogeneity21, which is consistent with observations that aggregation increases organic carbon persistence24.Predicting and managing decomposition is then not only a ques -tion of when a compound becomes soluble but rather the likelihood that decomposer and substrate are co-located25. Bacteria are rela -tively immobile because water films in hydrologically unsaturated soil are not thick enough for the complete immersion of bacterial cells26, and even with full immersion in water, bacteria are ener -getically limited from moving long distances. Fungal growth over short distances is slower than the rate of substrate diffusion, except in nutrient-rich environments27,28. Therefore, the likelihood of con -tact between substrate and decomposer should be examined and the extent to which it depends on the short-distance transport of Molecular diversityLow diversityHigh diversitySpatial heterogeneityCo‐locationSpatial separationMicroorganismMineralOrganic matterTemporal variabilitySlow and smallRapid, large, irregularPlant organic matterMicrobe organic matterTransport of organic m atterEner gy re turn on investmen t and adapt ation b y microorganism sEner gy re turn on investmen t and adapt ation b y microorganism sEner gy re turn on investmen t and adapt ation b y microorganism sRapiddecompositionRapiddecompositionRapiddecompositionRapiddecompositionFig. 1 | Functional complexity and the persistence of soil organic carbon. Functional complexity comprises molecular diversity, spatial heterogeneity and temporal variability that affect the energy, carbon and nutrient return on investment for the microbial community. A lower molecular diversity and concomitant higher concentrations of individual molecules facilitate specialization of the decomposer community, whereas higher diversity increases the cost–benefit ratio for microorganisms to utilize these molecules. Higher spatial heterogeneity decreases the probability that decomposers meet substrate. Greater temporal variability may reduce the ability of microbes to adapt to an environment, whereas moisture fluctuations may also increase movement of substrate to decomposers; therefore, increased variability may decrease or increase persistence.NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 530PersPective NATure GeoScieNceorganic carbon rather than on the microbial mobility, which is what is typically invoked.In addition to spatial heterogeneity, temporal variations of soil moisture, temperature, nutrients and organic carbon can cause non-linear decreases or increases in decomposition, and even unexpected access to very old carbon29, reflecting biogeochemical thresholds of ecosystem properties (Fig. 1). It is typically assumed that microbes change their activity in tandem with moisture and temperature fluctuations, and that their response is independent of how extreme or frequent environmental fluctuations are5,6. This view is not sufficient for guiding management and predictions of soil organic carbon dynamics, because high temporal variation causes two additional, as yet unrepresented, processes: (1) not only solubility of substrate but also transport within soil pores changes the amount of organic carbon that can be assimilated by microor-ganisms30, and (2) adaptation of microbial communities to rapid changes in environmental and substrate conditions contributes to their ability to utilize organic carbon31. Mounting evidence suggests that not only current but also historical environmental conditions may substantially alter rates and pathways of carbon transforma-tions32. For example, adaptation to high soil temperatures were shown to decrease the sensitivity of decomposition to changing temperatures32. The responses that allow microbes to tolerate or adapt to environmental stress therefore lead to characteristic life history traits and physiological trade-offs33 that shape microbial community composition, activity and function over the long term.Interactions of molecular, spatial and temporal complexityInteraction among molecular diversity, spatial heterogeneity and temporal variability increases the uncertainty that decomposers must confront and adapt to compared to facing each of these com-plexities individually. Spatial heterogeneity and temporal variability may exacerbate the consequences of molecular diversity. The cost of having the capability to decompose diverse organic matter is already high11,34 and, in patchy and unreliable resource landscapes, enzyme production may further decline due to low as well as fluc -tuating concentrations of specific organic molecules or nutrients35. This can even result in the loss of the capacity to use substrates for growth36 and the development of metabolic flexibility, including dormancy34. This loss of microbial capacity may ultimately reduce organic carbon decomposition even when resources become avail -able. Adaptation of the biotic community to this pulsed nature of the environment has notable effects on the dynamics of carbon in soil, as a reduced ability of an individual decomposer to utilize a certain type of molecule would diminish the probability of contact between substrate and competent decomposer.In turn, molecular diversity may influence spatial heterogeneity when certain molecules adsorb to iron oxides while others adsorb to silicates or accumulate in pores8,14. Therefore, the combination of spatial heterogeneity and molecular diversity probably further reduces organic carbon decomposition, as suggested by theory25. It remains an interesting question whether spatial heterogeneity poses a more important constraint on decomposition than does molecular diversity, and how these complexities interact.emergent behaviour of soil organic carbon decompositionThe described functional complexity is expected to cause ‘emergent behaviour’ , as seen in other complex systems37, in which fine-scale interactions among individual parts of the system lead to the emer -gence of a behaviour with a quality that cannot be inferred from the behaviour of these parts37. Even though the concept of emergent behaviour and self-organization is well established in theoretical ecology37, it has only rarely been applied to soil systems38. Rather, organic carbon decomposition is traditionally described from a large-scale perspective as the sum of the individual behaviours of microbes and substrate (Fig. 2a).Recognizing soil as a complex system opens up possibilities to describe persistence as an emergent behaviour arising from non-linear interactions among decomposers, their diverse organic substrates, and their heterogeneous and changing local soil envi-ronment (Fig. 2b). While laboratory experiments have shown the potential of spatial self-organization in microbial communities39, studies on microbial self-organization in soil interacting with its environment are limited20. Modelling individual microorganisms in soil decomposer communities (individual-based modelling)40,41 demonstrated the potential importance of emergent behaviour for soil organic carbon turnover. The next steps include (1) obtain-ing better representation of how emergent behaviour affects soil organic carbon persistence, (2) translating these insights into model structures that capture essential insights at the pore scale as well as further translating these to a global scale42 that may also include machine-learning approaches43, and (3) implementing these insights into management-relevant recommendations as part of policy-relevant decision support systems.Implications for management and policyWe propose integrating soil functional complexity into the devel -opment of management and prediction, as this complexity medi -ates the effects of land use and cover, soil properties and climate Soil organic carbon response to changes in land use and cover, management and environmentEmergentbehaviourTraditional 'macroscopic' view:interactions at the aggregated levelNew 'soil as a complex system' view:non-linear interactions at different organizational levelsBehaviourfrom averageinteractionsa b0+–DecompositionSoil organic carbonTime Time0+–DecompositionSoil organic carbonDissolvedorganic matterBiotaExtracellularenzymesParticulateand adsorbedorganic matterFig. 2 | emergent behaviour of soil organic carbon decomposition. a, T raditional understanding of soil organic carbon dynamics is based on homogeneously distributed (at the scale of a microorganism) and slowly changing organic matter, microbial biomass and enzymes (drawings) as a function of environment (soil properties such as texture; environmental properties such as moisture). b, In contrast, allowing non-linear feedbacks that occur at the scale of individual organisms and organic matter generates emergent behaviour of the soil system that differs from the sum of the individual interactions. The resulting responses to a change in environmental conditions or management are characteristic of the functional complexity.NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 531PersPective NATure GeoScieNceon soil carbon sequestration (Fig. 3). Carbon persists in soil when many different molecules with individually low concentrations are distributed throughout a heterogeneous landscape of pores inter-acting with different minerals under variable environmental con -ditions. Soil management will therefore need to focus on ongoing care to manipulate the intricate balance between carbon inputs and losses, rather than rely on locking away carbon in soil for the long term. Promoting functional complexity consistent with a mixture of inputs and a diversity of plant species44,45 (which will stimulate a diverse microbial community45 and rhizodeposits14), and with lower soil mixing (by tillage), should therefore be explored to increase soil carbon persistence and sequestration (Fig. 4). Specifically, it is important to better understand how to sequester carbon in soil by increasing persistence based on functional complexity in compari-son to merely increasing organic carbon inputs.Using predictive models to explore soil carbon behaviour under different scenarios can be the basis for substantial policy and indus -try investment46. We propose combining soil functional complex -ity—molecular, spatial and temporal—with multiscale modelling to optimize such global efforts in soil carbon sequestration25. The concept of functional complexity also avoids the pitfall of invok -ing stable carbon forms with long6 or infinite5 turnover times that relay a false policy and extension message of irreversible carbon storage in soil. Such ‘models with intent’ need to operate regionally to globally, at scales large enough to justify policy interventions but local enough to exhibit emergent properties reflective of the known functional complexity of soils. In contrast to traditionally employed upscaling approaches for such decision-support tools, we propose multiscale modelling approaches that combine ‘microscale’ and ‘macroscale’ models, either concurrently or by extrapolating over time with broad macroscale assumptions. The most complex and highly resolved model (in space, process and time) should serve as the basis model for the macroscale projections. By integrating results from the basis model into the macroscale model through responses in decomposition that reflect soils’ underlying functional complexity rather than static properties (Fig. 2), processes occur-ring at the finer scales are accounted for. Examples of multiscale modelling are found in chemical engineering and material sci -ence47, atmospheric science to describe cloud physics48 and reactive transport in groundwater49, and may be combined with artificial intelligence43.Soil functional complexityPrediction at multiple scales using response functions ManagementClimate Soil properties(mineralogy,aggregates,texture,microorganisms,fauna, pH, nutrients,...)Land use/cover(vegetation, livestock,...)SpatialheterogeneityMoleculardiversityTemporalvariabilitySoil organic carbon sequestrationFig. 3 | Integration of molecular, spatial and temporal complexity with management and prediction of soil carbon sequestration. The pore-scale functional complexity that modulates the effects of environmental, land-use and management changes on the soil system (including aggregation, mineral interactions, biotic activity, diversity, and so on)7,15 may serve as the core concept integrated into prediction at management-relevant scales for soil carbon sequestration. Understanding how soil pore-to-profile-scale complexity influences persistence will change how we predict soil organic carbon dynamics and develop more sophisticated management for sequestration.Convert to perennial vegetationUse mixture of and rotate plants with different growth habitsIf doneIf not doneRegenerative soil carbon practiceRecommendation consistent with functional complexityAnd evaluateTemporal variabilityMolecular diversity Spatial heterogeneityRestore wetlands Avoid periodic drainage and water movement Grow N2-fixing plants and cover cropsUse mixture of and vary plants with different growth habitsReduce tillagePrioritize reduction in mixing Rotate cropsVary plants with different growth habits; overlapgrowth cyclesUse plant mixturesUse plants with different growth habits; perennials and annuals; agroforestry Add amendments Vary mixtures of residues, manures, biochar, compost Fig. 4 | Regenerative soil carbon practice consistent with promotion of functional diversity to increase soil carbon persistence. Soil management designed to increase persistence of soil organic carbon1 should be investigated for its alignment with functional diversity. The listed management recommendations also increase organic carbon input (for example, greater plant diversity45) or persistence unrelated to functional diversity (for example, avoiding periodic drainage also reduces aeration in addition to movement of carbon). Inset colours relate to the three aspects of functional diversity (molecular, spatial and temporal) also used in Figs. 2 and 3. Interactions of effects over time require specific attention in future research (indicated by italics).NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 532PersPective NATure GeoScieNceQuantifying soil functional complexity to parameterize such models will not be easy, particularly for global applications. In the near term, this challenge may be resolved by measuring carbon-relevant responses to a change in land cover or use, soil properties, or climate, because these responses reflect the underly -ing soil functional complexities. Engaging with temporal, spatial or molecular complexity may motivate a new generation of scientific experiments such as those increasingly conducted in soil microbial ecology50. Initially, such microbial responses may be used to define soil functional types51, or rather what we may call ‘soil functional response types’ , to distinguish them from types based on static soil properties. The multiscale models we envision could then be used to predict functional response types based on fine-scale information; a convergence of theory and empirical evidence would build confi -dence in the new models’ predictive power. The functional response types would ideally be further integrated into dynamic geospatial models, because they are expected to change over time with man-agement, land cover or climate. Contemporary efforts in develop -ing new soil sensor technology52 must be intensified to provide the capacity to quantify these responses through laboratory measure -ments and eventually through real-time and high-resolution field measurements.The way in which soil functional complexity will guide global soil management and prediction of climate–carbon feedbacks will and should vary among locations and land uses. Likewise, different next-generation carbon modelling approaches will allow testing of the robustness of scaling assumptions. As already implemented for global climate models, prediction tools for soil carbon sequestra-tion operating at the global scale should also be compared within a common testbed53. Such an ensemble approach will allow rigorous comparison of their behaviours without biases resulting from other assumptions being made, such as boundary or initial conditions. Soil organic carbon models based on measured functional complex-ity and upscaling using soil response types have the potential to gen -erate the policy-relevant soil management recommendations that are required to underpin international programs needed to address global-change challenges.Received: 25 November 2019; Accepted: 17 June 2020;  Published online: 27 July 2020References 1. Paustian, K. et al. Climate-smart soils. Nature  532, 49–57 (2016). 2. Todd-Brown, K. E. O. et al. Causes of variation in soil carbon simulations from CMIP5 Earth system models and comparison with observations. Biogeosciences 10, 1717–1736 (2013). 3. Bradford, M. A. et al. Managing uncertainty in soil carbon feedbacks to climate change. Nat. Clim. Change 6, 751–758 (2016). 4. Koven, C. D., Hugelius, G., Lawrence, D. M. & Wieder, W . R. Higher climatological temperature sensitivity of soil carbon in cold than warm climates. Nat. Clim. Change 7, 817–822 (2017). 5. Jenkinson, D. S. & Rayner, J. H. The turnover of soil organic matter in some of the Rothamsted classical experiments. Soil Sci. 123, 298–305 (1977). 6. Parton, W . J., Schimel, D. S., Cole, C. V . & Ojima, D. S. Analysis of factors controlling soil organic matter levels in Great Plains Grasslands. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 51, 1173–1179 (1987). 7. Schmidt, M. W . I. et al. Persistence of soil organic matter as an ecosystem property. Nature  478, 49–56 (2011). 8. Lehmann, J. & Kleber, M. The contentious nature of soil organic matter. Nature  528, 60–68 (2015). 9. Vetter, Y . A., Deming, J. W ., Jumars, P . A. & Krieger-Brockett, B. B. A predictive model of bacterial foraging by means of freely released extracellular enzymes. Microb. Ecol. 36, 75–92 (1998). 10. Sugai, S. F. & Schimel, J. P . Decomposition and biomass incorporation of 14C-labeled glucose and phenolics in taiga forest floor: effect of substrate quality, successional state, and season. Soil Biol. Biochem. 25, 1379–1389 (1993). 11. Lane, N. & Martin, W . The energetics of genome complexity. Nature  467, 929–934 (2010). 12. Kästner, M. & Miltner, A. Application of compost for effective bioremediation of organic contaminants and pollutants in soil. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 100, 3433–3449 (2016). 13. Mentg es, A., Feenders, C., Seibt, M., Blasius, B. & Dittmar, T. Functional molecular diversity of marine dissolved organic matter is reduced during degradation. Front. Mar. Sci. 4, 194 (2017). 14. Hemingway, J. D. et al. Mineral protection regulates long-term global preservation of natural organic carbon. Nature  570, 228–231 (2019). 15. Cotrufo, M. F., Wallenstein, M. D., Boot, C. M., Denef, K. & Paul, E. The Microbial Efficiency-Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) framework integrates plant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization: do labile plant inputs form stable soil organic matter? Glob. Change Biol. 19, 988–995 (2013). 16. Roth, V . N. et al. Persistence of dissolved organic matter explained by molecular changes during its passage through soil. Nat. Geosci. 12, 755–761 (2019). 17. Kögel-Knabner, I. The macromolecular organic composition of plant and microbial residues as inputs to soil organic matter: fourteen years on. Soil Biol. Biochem. 105, A3–A8 (2017). 18. Kallenbach, C. M., Frey, S. D. & Grandy, A. S. Direct evidence for microbial-derived soil organic matter formation and its ecophysiological controls. Nat. Commun.  7, 13630 (2016). 19. Jiménez-González, M. A., Álvarez, A. M., Hernández, Z. & Almendros, G. Soil carbon storage predicted from the diversity of pyrolytic alkanes. Biol. Fertil. Soils 54, 617–629 (2018). 20. Y oung, I. M. & Crawford, J. W . Interactions and self-organization in the soil-microbe complex. Science  304, 1634–1637 (2004). 21. Rawlins, B. G. et al. Three-dimensional soil organic matter distribution, accessibility and microbial respiration in macroaggregates using osmium staining and synchrotron X-ray computed tomography. Soil  2, 659–671 (2016). 22. Rovira, A. D. & Greacen, E. L. The effect of aggregate disruption on the activity of microorganisms in the soil. Aust. J. Agric. Res. 8, 659–673 (1957). 23. Dignac, M.-F. et al. Increasing soil carbon storage: mechanisms, effects of agricultural practices and proxies. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 37, 14 (2017). 24. Peng, X., Zhu, Q., Zhang, Z. & Hallett, P . D. Combined turnover of carbon and soil aggregates using rare earth oxides and isotopically labelled carbon as tracers. Soil Biol. Biochem. 109, 81–94 (2017). 25. Chakrawal, A. et al. Dynamic upscaling of decomposition kinetics for carbon cycling models. Geosci. Model Dev. 13, 1399–1429 (2020). 26. Or, D., Smets, B. F., Wraith, J. M., Dechesne, A. & Friedman, S. P . Physical constraints affecting bacterial habitats and activity in unsaturated porous media — a review. Adv. Water Resour. 30, 1505–1527 (2007). 27. Watt, M., Silk, W . K. & Passioura, J. B. Rates of root and organism growth, soil conditions, and temporal and spatial development of the rhizosphere. Ann. Bot. 97, 839–855 (2006). 28. Oyewole, O. A., Inselsbacher, E. & Näsholm, T. Direct estimation of mass flow and diffusion of nitrogen compounds in solution and soil. New Phytol.  201, 1056–1064 (2014). 29. Schimel, J. P ., Wetterstedt, J. Å. M., Holden, P . A. & Trumbore, S. E. Drying/rewetting cycles mobilize old C from deep soils from a California annual grassland. Soil Biol. Biochem. 43, 1101–1103 (2011). 30. Homyak, P . M. et al. Effects of altered dry season length and plant inputs on soluble soil carbon. Ecology 99, 2348–2362 (2018). 31. Bouskill, N. J. et al. Belowground response to drought in a tropical forest soil. I. Changes in microbial functional potential and metabolism. Front. Microbiol.  7, 525 (2016). 32. Dacal, M., Bradford, M. A., Plaza, C., Maestre, F. T. & García-Palacios, P . Soil microbial respiration adapts to ambient temperature in global drylands. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 3, 232–238 (2019). 33. Maynard, D. S. et al. Consistent trade-offs in fungal trait expression across broad spatial scales. Nat. Microbiol.  4, 846–853 (2019). 34. Şimşek, E. & Kim, M. The emergence of metabolic heterogeneity and diverse growth responses in isogenic bacterial cells. ISME J. 12, 1199–1209 (2018). 35. German, D. P ., Chacon, S. S. & Allison, S. D. Substrate concentration and enzyme allocation can affect rates of microbial decomposition. Ecology 92, 1471–1480 (2011). 36. MacLean, R. C. & Bell, G. Experimental adaptive radiation in Pseudomonas . Am. Nat. 160, 569–581 (2002). 37. Thurner, S., Hanel, R. & Klimek, P . Introduction to the Theory of Complex Systems (Oxford Univ. Press, 2018). 38. Konopka, A., Lindemann, S. & Fredrickson, J. Dynamics in microbial communities: unraveling mechanisms to identify principles. ISME J. 9, 1488–1495 (2015). 39. Nadell, C. D., Drescher, K. & Foster, K. R. Spatial structure, cooperation and competition in biofilms. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 14, 589–600 (2016). 40. Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Richter, A. & Dieckmann, U. Social dynamics within decomposer communities lead to nitrogen retention and organic matter build-up in soils. Nat. Commun.  6, 8960 (2015). 41. Borer, B., Tecon, R. & Or, D. Spatial organization of bacterial populations in response to oxygen and carbon counter-gradients in pore networks. Nat. Commun.  9, 769 (2018).NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 533PersPective NATure GeoScieNce 42. Tang, J. & Riley, W . J. Weaker soil carbon–climate feedbacks resulting from microbial and abiotic interactions. Nat. Clim. Change 5, 56–60 (2015). 43. Reichstein, M. et al. Deep learning and process understanding for data-driven Earth system science. Nature  566, 195–204 (2019). 44. Chen, X. et al. Effects of plant diversity on soil carbon in diverse ecosystems: a global meta‐analysis. Biol. Rev. 95, 167–183 (2020). 45. Lange, M. et al. Plant diversity increases soil microbial activity and soil carbon storage. Nat. Commun.  6, 6707 (2015). 46. Vermeulen, S. et al. A global agenda for collective action on soil carbon. Nat. Sustain.  2, 2–4 (2019). 47. Vlachos, D. G., Mhadeshwar, A. B. & Kaisare, N. S. Hierarchical multiscale model-based design of experiments, catalysts, and reactors for fuel processing. Comput. Aided Chem. Eng. 21, 9–27 (2006). 48. Fan, J. et al. Improving representation of convective transport for scale-aware parameterization: 1. Convection and cloud properties simulated with spectral bin and bulk microphysics. J. Geophys. Res. Atmospheres 120, 3485–3509 (2015). 49. Molins, S. & Knabner, P . Multiscale approaches in reactive transport modeling. Rev. Mineral. Geochem. 85, 27–48 (2019). 50. Rillig, M. C. et al. The role of multiple global change factors in driving soil functions and microbial biodiversity. Science  366, 886–890 (2019). 51. Petrakis, S., Barba, J., Bond-Lamberty, B. & Vargas, R. Using  greenhouse gas fluxes to define soil functional types. Plant Soil  423,  285–294 (2018). 52. Rossel, R. A. V . & Bouma, J. Soil sensing: a new paradigm for agriculture. Agric. Syst. 148, 71–74 (2016). 53. Wieder, W . R. et al. Carbon cycle confidence and uncertainty: exploring variation among soil biogeochemical models. Glob. Change Biol. 24, 1563–1579 (2018).acknowledgementsWe are grateful to the Institute of Advanced Study at the Technical University of Munich for organizing the workshop under the Hans-Fischer-Senior Program that allowed the completion of this manuscript, funded by the German Excellence Initiative and the European Union Seventh Framework Programme under grant agreement no. 291763. C.K. received funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (grant agreement no. 819446). W .R.W . acknowledges funding by the US Department of Energy, Office of Biological and Environmental Research Genomic Science Program under award number DE-SC0016364. S.M. was supported by the Swedish Research Council Vetenskapsrådet (grant 2016-04146). author contributionsAll authors participated in generating the concept. J.L., S.M., N.N., C.K. and K.M. drafted first versions of the figures. All authors contributed to writing and editing.Competing interestsThe authors declare no competing interests.additional informationCorrespondence should be addressed to J.L.Peer review information Primary Handling Editor: Clare Davis.Reprints and permissions information is available at www.nature.com/reprints.Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.© Springer Nature Limited 2020NaTuRe Geo SCIeNCe | VOL 13 | AUGUST 2020 | 529–534 | www.nature.com/naturegeoscience 534