Citation: Brock, A.; Kemp, S.;Williams, I.D. Personal CarbonBudgets: A Pestle Review.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238.https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159238Academic Editors: Baojie He,Ayyoob Shariﬁ, Chi Feng andJun YangReceived: 5 July 2022Accepted: 26 July 2022Published: 28 July 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).sustainabilityReviewPersonal Carbon Budgets: A Pestle ReviewAlice Brock *, Simon Kemp and Ian D. WilliamsFaculty of Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Southampton, University Rd., Highﬁeld,Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK; s.kemp@soton.ac.uk (S.K.); i.d.williams@soton.ac.uk (I.D.W.)*Correspondence: ab1n15@soton.ac.ukAbstract: Personal Carbon Budgets (PCBs) are a radical policy innovation that seek to reduce anindividual’s carbon consumption. This review identiﬁes three archetypes of PCBs in the currentliterature; Personal Carbon Trading, Carbon Tax and Carbon Labelling. We theorised that carbontrading could affect equity and allow quality of life and consumption to be driven by incomerather than needs. We, therefore, developed a new model (Personal Carbon Allowance with notrading) to compare to existing archetypes. A PESTLE (Political, Economic, Social, Technological,Legal, Environmental) framework was applied to each archetype to analyse and compare their costsand beneﬁts and to critically evaluate and identify which model may be the most appropriate toreduce emissions severely but equitably. We conclude that the only model that can achieve this is ourproposed Personal Carbon Allowance (PCA) model with no trading. PCA has a hard cap on emissionsallowing for controllable severe cuts to emissions, and the lack of trading would prohibit those withwealth from continuing high-consumption lifestyles at the expense of those with lower incomes.Keywords: carbon; emissions; policy; carbon budgeting; equality; carbon trading; equity1. IntroductionCarbon emissions are the key contributor to climate change [ 1]. In order to halt globaltemperature rises to a level at which catastrophic climate change impacts would be limited,greenhouse gases (GHGs) must be reduced [ 1]. One of the largest contributors to carbonemissions is household consumption; household energy consumption, personal transportand food consumption are key drivers of household emissions [ 2]. Whilst many seek atop-down approach to reducing carbon emissions, for example, regulating industry, allsources of emissions must be addressed to slow climate change.Due to the severity of the threat of catastrophic climate change, it is imperative thatdeﬁnite and effective actions take place (‘actions not words’); these may be uncomfortableto many, but the scientiﬁc consensus is that we are reaching ‘the point of no return’ in termsof anthropogenic emissions and their adverse impacts. Whilst governments, such as theUnited Kingdom’s, have commitments to reduce GHG emissions in law, the reductionsneeded are deep, and it is highly unlikely that targets will be met [ 1,3]. The Climate ChangeCommittee (CCC), the UK government’s climate advisors, state within the Sixth CarbonBudget report that the UK needs to aggressively cut emissions by 78% of 1990 levels overthe next ﬁfteen years to achieve the ‘Net Zero’ emissions target by 2050 [ 3]. The CCCalso advises that despite the UK’s sizable efforts to reduce emissions, the government iscurrently ‘off track’ to meet the targets of the Fourth and Fifth Carbon Budgets [ 4]. Newpolicies that are more radical need to be delivered quickly to cut emissions. This is evidenteven in countries setting and working towards ambitious ‘Net Zero’ goals, since these goalsmay be out of reach with current strategies and policies.Several policy interventions have been proposed to reduce personal carbon emissions;these range from a carbon tax to carbon labelling and personal carbon trading. Personalcarbon trading has not been applied yet, whereas carbon taxes and carbon labelling havebeen employed by either governments or businesses (in the case of carbon labelling). TheSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159238 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainabilitySustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 2 of 18features of these models vary; some include carbon allocations for individuals, whilstothers seek to nudge the public into reshaping their consumption behaviours. Personalcarbon trading has been tested in small pilot studies but never applied on a large scale dueto how complex it may be to implement and how radical a policy it is perceived to be [ 4–8].Therefore, the features of this model vary, but the inclusion of the trading of carbon ‘credits’or their allocation is always a key feature.Three archetypes have been deﬁned from the synthesis of the existing literature;however, these models are rarely critically reviewed and compared to each other in termsof their potential efﬁciency in reducing emissions and costs as well as their beneﬁts, toascertain which is the most viable.We propose a fourth personal carbon budget archetype—personal carbon allowance(no trading). Trading is usually involved in mandatorily capped carbon budgets (PCT), orif not included in a study or pilot, it is the ‘end goal’ of such schemes and will be mentionedextensively in the discussions around the study [5–8]. The removal of trading may have ahost of different impacts on how a carbon budget may work and may provide answers toissues raised by the inclusion of trading in proposed PCT models. To evaluate the beneﬁtsof this new policy a social framework is of great beneﬁt, such as by a PESTLE (Political,Economic, Social, Technological, Legal, Environmental) analysis [9].PCT has been evaluated to be a progressive policy measure, particularly those withan allocated budget, as they ‘level the playing ﬁeld’, allowing those from lower incomebackgrounds to be on equal footing as those from higher income backgrounds [ 8,10–14].This could be reinforced even further by eliminating trading, particularly trading wherecredits can be purchased using money that would give advantage back to those who aremore afﬂuent. A CT tax would be a regressive tax since via reducing carbon emissions,different policies could have drastically different impacts on people’s lives depending ontheir circumstances/demographics [11–13].The proposed PCA model is unique as it eliminates trading, a ubiquitous feature ofmandatory budget models. Almost all proposed PCB schemes with a cap and mandatorylimit include trading or will include trading at a later point [ 6–8,14–21]. Most proposed poli-cies with a hard cap and allocation of emissions include trading as a standard unquestionedfeature. PCT (and the proposed PCA) differ from carbon taxation and carbon labelling dueto the hard cap they can apply on overall emissions generated. Each individual would begiven an allocation that was part of a larger national or international budget that could notbe exceeded [ 14–21]. Carbon labelling is voluntary, and therefore, it is impossible to havean enforced cap, even if there was a suggested allocation for the public to attempt to staywithin [22–24].2. Personal Carbon Budget ModelsWithin the peer reviewed and grey literature, numerous permutations of PCBs havebeen proposed and discussed, alongside other policy interventions that have been con-sidered as reasonable alternatives to PCBs. These models fall into three broad categories.This paper identiﬁes three main overall archetype: personal carbon trading (PCT), carbonlabelling (CL) and carbon tax (CT). We propose a personal carbon allowance with notrading (PCA) as a separate model from PCT (Table 1). Each model aims to reduce carbonemissions from the public.To review and compare each model, each model was deﬁned according to a reviewof the literature. An adapted PESTLE (Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legaland Environmental) analysis framework has been applied to each model, synthesisinginformation from the existing literature with reasonable assumptions [ 9]. A set of ques-tions were developed in order to facilitate a critical evaluation of each model. Not allthe questions applied to all models in all cases, but they indicate general areas of im-portance (see Supplementary Materials Part S1 ). Key features of each model were identi-ﬁed in relation to each PESTLE factor according to the answers to the set questions (seeSupplementary Materials Part S2).Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 3 of 18Table 1. Four main identiﬁed Personal Carbon Budget Models and notable features and shortcomingsof each model.Model Features Shortcomings LiteratureCarbon Tax(Mandatory) Either ﬂat tax or proportional tocarbon emissions by weight pergood or service Levied upstream Could have exemptions, etc. No cap on emissions Tax revenue could be invested ingreen enterprise and innovation No emissions cap meansemissions generation cannot belimited to speciﬁc levels Taxes largely politicallyunpopular Regressive policy[7,10–14]Personal Carbon Trading(Mandatory) Carbon ‘credits’ allocated per year,each credit worth a certainamount of carbon/value ofcarbon, additional credits have acost. Surplus credits can be sold. Allocation per personor household Scope of what is included isvariable but personal only Requires goods and services’carbon footprint to be calculated Credits could roll over tonext year Needs government bodyto regulate Hard cap on emissions Trading may be socially unjustdue to advantages those withgreater ﬁnances may have Requires considerableinfrastructure May be politically unpopular[14–21]Personal Carbon AllowanceWith No Trading(Mandatory) Carbon ‘credits’ allocated per year,each credit worth a certainamount of carbon/value of carbon Allocation per personor household Scope of what is included isvariable but personal only Requires goods and services’carbon footprint calculated Credits could roll over tonext year Needs government bodyto regulate Hard cap on emissions No trading of credits in any way Requires considerableinfrastructure May be politically unpopular[7,18–21]Carbon Labelling(Voluntary) Responsibility all on companies toprovide carbon information onproducts and services Regulatory body not necessary Requires goods and services’carbon footprint calculated Public given target butno enforcement No cap on emissions No emissions cap meansemissions generation cannot belimited to speciﬁc levels May be politically popular dueto being voluntary Cannot guarantee anyreductions since it is voluntary[22–24]Carbon offsetting has not been included in this review since it is out of its scope; itis not a speciﬁc personal carbon reduction policy as it can be used more generally acrossSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 4 of 18businesses and other groups. Carbon offsetting does not directly reduce emissions—itsimply seeks to neutralise them—and is thus outside the scope of this review.2.1. Personal Carbon TradingPersonal carbon trading (PCT) is a cap-and-trade model for reducing carbon emissions(Table 1 highlights the key features of this model). A limit (cap) is put upon the weight ofcarbon (as CO 2e) that can be emitted by a country/area/population for a unit of time, oftena year. This cap amount is then allocated amongst those regulated by the scheme [ 13,25].These allocations would likely be in the form of carbon credits to be ‘spent’ on goods andservices; credits can be traded to other members of the public via a credit broker for a setmonetary value [6,26]. The ability to purchase additional credits means those with higherincomes would be at an advantage to live higher-consumption lifestyles; some modelspropose a limit to how much of a carbon allowance may be traded, but there is no consensuson what this limit should be [ 14,27]. Figure 1 demonstrates how a hypothetical PCT schememay work.Figure 1. Schematic of simpliﬁed example of a Personal Carbon Trading scheme.A personal carbon trading scheme may only involve the public, but versions of thismodel include industry. Tradable Energy Quota (TEQ) models allocate approximately 40%of to the public, with the remaining 60% auctioned to qualifying ﬁrms [25,28].DEFRA’s (2008) report, among others, proposes a system whereby the credits aremonitored through existing banking systems and contactless cards are used in order tospend credits [ 28–30]. These cards would make use of existing contactless machines inshops and would have an account where the public could track their credit spending.2.2. Personal Carbon Allowance (No Trading)A PCA model without trading is mostly identical to a PCT model as the methodsfor the distribution of carbon, the scope of emissions and various other technical aspectsSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 5 of 18can be the same (see Section 2.1). Most literature on PCBs that cap individual carbonemissions involve carbon trading, with few suggesting no trading of any kind, althoughsome studies propose a limit on the percentage of the allowance that can be traded [ 14,31,32].Table 1 highlights the key features of this model. PCA bypasses the social justice issuessurrounding the ability of those with greater wealth to purchase carbon credits from thoseof lower incomes to continue their current lifestyles. Within the existing literature, mostPCT/PCA models involve trading, and no thorough examination has been given regardingthe implications of eliminating trading. It may be that personal allowances are too low toreach the reductions needed so that trading would be redundant. Figure 2 demonstrateshow a hypothetical PCA scheme may work.Figure 2. Schematic of simpliﬁed example of a Personal Carbon Allowance scheme.Allocations of carbon credits in a PCA model would be of great importance. Thepublic would not be able to ‘top up’ their allowance by trading, even if their need isjustiﬁed. The governing body would have to accurately and fairly distribute allowanceswith consideration for speciﬁc requirements and needs, such as; mobility, housing (forexample a detached house is more expensive to heat than a terraced house), disability,gender, age and potentially even cultural impacts such as religious or cultural requirements.The governing body that would monitor and oversee a PCA scheme may need to have areserve of carbon credits that could be applied in the case of an individual going beyondtheir allocation for unforeseen circumstances or needs.Public carbon allowance schemes have arisen in recent years, notably Carbon Ra-tioning Action Groups (CRAGs). CRAGs are voluntary measures, and each participant isSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 6 of 18given a carbon allowance per year that they then manage and account for personally. Ifthey go over this allowance, they pay a penalty for their carbon debt (Carbon Day, 2021;Howell, 2012). This is similar to the proposed idea of PCA in this paper, as currently thereis no trading in the CRAGs model; however, it is not mandatory and has no hard cap. Atthe time of writing, no government has implemented a PCA (or PCT) scheme or policy.2.3. Carbon LabellingCarbon labelling (CL), unlike the other models, is a voluntary measure (Table 1 high-lights the key features of this model). Goods and services would be required to have alabel indicating the carbon emissions generated in relation to that good or service, andthe public would be asked to work to a voluntary carbon budget set by the governmentusing these labels to inform their consumption, or simply asked to make ‘green’ choicesbased on labelling (see Figure 3) [ 22,23]. There would be no public enforcement to followthe CL policy and no cap on emissions. A carbon labelling method would rely on nudgetheory principles; the implication of the labelling and the voluntary budget would be thateveryone needs to comply but would not be forced to do so, and would face no penalty ifthey did not. This type of model would rely on the principle that the public’s behaviourcould be shaped and drastically changed by the provision of information and education onthe embodied carbon from their consumption. Figure 3 demonstrates how two different CLmodels may be implemented: one model includes a government-set cap, one simply hasthe public encouraged to make ‘green’ consumption choices based on labelling.Figure 3. Schematic of simpliﬁed examples of two CL models, one with a government advised carboncap, one without.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 7 of 18Businesses would be required to provide carbon footprints and labels for their prod-ucts, and hence standardisation across the footprinting method used (as with all PCT/PCA)would be necessary to ensure consistency, reliability and accuracy.Carbon labelling, unlike PCT and PCA, has been implemented by various brands andcompanies on occasion, usually in the form of kg CO 2e per product. In 2007, Pepsi Co.announced that Walkers Crisp packets would bear a Carbon Trust-certiﬁed carbon labelidentifying the carbon cost of the product, and there was also a commitment to lower thecarbon impact of the product over two years [ 33,34]. However, a visit to the supermarketnow will show that Walkers crisps currently no longer bear a carbon label. SupermarketTesco stated an intention to label all their products with a Carbon Trust label; however,this was discontinued due to the cost and time required, with estimates it would takethe supermarket centuries to carbon label all their own-brand products at the pace theywere going [35,36]. Recently, other brands have made efforts to carbon label some of theirproducts. Both Oatly and Quorn display carbon labels on popular items, but this is nota widespread practice and still most commonly occurs on food products [ 37,38]. Pilotschemes and the practical testing of carbon labelling has taken place, but the nature ofthe labels varies; some use a ‘trafﬁc light’ system that has amber as the ‘average’ carbonemissions for a product, black ‘worse’ and green ‘better’ [ 24]. This is different from currentapproaches by companies such as Oatly which put the kg CO 2e value on products. Thisrelies on the public having an understanding of what their allowance should be, and wouldbe suitable if people had a budget (see Figure 3). A trafﬁc light system could be applicablefor versions of labelling with no budget.2.4. Carbon TaxA carbon tax is an often-suggested carbon pricing policy that aims to discouragethe public from generating carbon emissions by taxing goods and services that generatehigh emissions (see Table 1). Several countries already have carbon taxation policies (e.g.,Canada, Denmark and Germany). A carbon tax is applied per unit on fossil fuels andsimilar fuels; the tax is levied in relation to the carbon content of the fuel [ 39,40]. The taxis applied upstream directly to the producer of the raw product, and this raises prices ofany goods or services that used a carbon intensive fuel in their provision [ 10,39]. Figure 4provides a simpliﬁed example of how a carbon tax works.A carbon tax does not include a cap on emissions and would not require individualgoods and services to have their carbon footprints calculated. The reduction in carbonemissions would not be controlled, and therefore, reductions in carbon emissions areexpected to come from the public changing their behaviours when faced with increasedcosts for goods and services [ 41,42]. Many countries do not have a direct carbon tax on allfuels or one that is applied across all carbon-emitting energy sources, but do have fuel orenergy taxes to discourage carbon emission generation. For example, India has a tax oncoal both imported and nationally produced but not a carbon tax on other fuel sources [ 43].A carbon tax would be reasonably simple to implement and would not require a newgoverning body or regulator to be created; depending on existing policies, it could berelatively easy to ﬁt alongside existing climate change policies in most governments [ 25,40].There are a range of ways revenue raised by a carbon tax could be invested. It has beensuggested that funds from carbon taxation would be reinvested into green innovation andenterprise, with the revenue itself being used to combat climate change [ 44,45]. This maynot necessarily always occur; governments may use the revenue as part of the generalbudget, or create a revenue neutral model, as they have in Canada, where the revenueraised is returned to the public as a rebate [46].Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 8 of 18Figure 4. Schematic of simple example of a carbon tax.3. Pestle AnalysisThe results of the PESTLE analysis indicate all models have complex beneﬁts andcosts (see Supplementary Materials Part S2). For example, a carbon tax may have con-siderable beneﬁts from a political perspective, but its positive environmental beneﬁts arequestionable. Whilst each category of the PESTLE analysis has importance when reviewingPCBs, considerable signiﬁcance must be given to the environmental factor, as PCBs existto reduce emissions. Following the environmental category, considerable weight mustbe given to the social factor, as PCBs impact individuals and could impact all facets of aperson’s life, particularly depending on their circumstances, means and needs. Researchersoften currently look towards the public acceptability of PCB models, but this study givesgreater weight to the environmental impacts and social justice impacts [14,22,44].3.1. PoliticalDue to the commitments by most global governmental bodies to the Paris Agreement,and many countries having targets, such as the UK’s goal of Net Zero Emissions by 2050, itcan be assumed that governments will have to undertake strong emission curbing policiesat all levels. Therefore, selecting an appropriate policy to reduce emissions will becomesteadily more important to governments.From a governance perspective, the PCT and PCA require the most investment, bothﬁnancially and by the nature of needing additional governing and monitoring bodies to becreated [ 28]. Both CT and CL place more of the burden on industry, and CT would raiserevenue for the government and ﬁt in with existing policies [ 46]. PCT and PCA wouldarguably be less politically popular due to their larger impact on the public and the lifestylerestrictions that hard limits on emissions would bring [ 5,10]. A carbon tax may be anunpopular policy as it could raise the costs of numerous goods and services [ 44]. Carbonlabelling, as it is voluntary, would not cost the public anything ﬁnancially and wouldnot enforce lifestyle changes, so this may be comparably more politically popular [ 22–24].CT may be politically unpopular; countries that have implemented any form of carbonpricing have experienced pushback from the public and political opponents. Canada’sfederal carbon taxation policy was challenged in the Supreme Court, and Australia repealedtheir unpopular carbon tax after two years despite the fact there was a signiﬁcant drop inSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 9 of 18emissions in that time period [ 46–50]. This indicates that effectiveness does not currentlyhold greater weight with governments than popularity at this time. Between a carbontax and a carbon budget model such as PCT, it has been found that the public state littlepreference between the two, which means each could be as popular with the public as theother, depending on their features [14].Carbon labelling shares features with PCT and PCA, as a budget for an individual is set,and goods and services are ‘bought’ with this budget. However, for CL, this has no manda-tory enforcement, instead using the currently politically popular ‘nudge theory’ [51–53] .Nudge theory employs behaviour-shaping to change public behaviours, using tactics suchas social pressure and advertising campaigns to inﬂuence individuals [ 51]. Nudge initia-tives have had some modest successes; however, it is questionable how successful a policylacking any enforcement can be at large-scale behaviour changes. For example, it has beensuggested that during the COVID-19 pandemic, the UK government attempted to employnudge theory, particularly at the outset of the pandemic, where advice was given to thepublic, i.e., ‘Hands, Face, Space’, rather than legal requirements and restrictions [ 54,55]. Asrestrictions had to then be introduced and the UK suffered considerably in the pandemic,this has led to criticism of nudge theory as an effective method to change behaviour in theface of a global crisis [ 53–57], especially one that requires the public to edit their behavioursfor the beneﬁt of others as it does not force change. Whilst CL is attractive politically as itrequires little in the way of enforcement and would ﬁt with existing nudge methods, thereis little proof it could achieve its goals to reduce emissions.The ramiﬁcations related to international trade are hard to deﬁne: if all countriesmoved to a PCT or PCA model, then they would all be working with comparable standardsin terms of the emissions generated by goods and services. However, if one nation hada hard cap on emissions and was engaging in trade with one without a cap, this may becomplex, since the nation without a cap may be doing less to reduce emissions, and demandfor their produce may lower or be unsuitable for consumption by those under a cap. Anymandatory policy that reduces emissions will reduce consumption, and less consumptionwill likely overall mean less trade. A labelling scheme is voluntary, so if the public kept tothe limits, it may impact trade, but likely not to the degree mandatory policies would.For the political factor, the CT and CL models are likely the most acceptable. A CTpolicy would raise revenue, and a CL policy has little burden on the governing bodycompared to PCT and PCA models.3.2. EconomicPCT and PCA models would arguably be the most ﬁnancially costly models to imple-ment, and they would require both government and industry spending [ 28]. Governmentswould be required to fund new governing and monitoring bodies and infrastructure; in-dustries would be required to have carbon footprints calculated for all included goodsand services, which would require considerable labour hours [ 26,28]. A carbon tax wouldincrease costs for industry but raise government revenue, and a carbon labelling approachwould incur costs in industry (for data collection and footprint calculation) [ 58]. Eachmodel has a ﬁnancial burden, but a carbon tax is the only model where the public bears thebrunt [26,28,58].Jobs generated by any model are difﬁcult to predict; however, a carbon tax is unlikelyto create jobs directly. PCT, PCA and CL all require carbon footprints developed for goodsand services, and the anticipated substantial requirement for this service may generate jobsin this sector as footprints would need to frequently be recalculated [ 28]. PCT and PCAwould require the development of new governing and monitoring bodies and systems thatwould create additional government jobs [26,28].A carbon tax is regarded as a regressive tax since those with lower incomes payproportionally more of their income than those with higher incomes [ 12,58]. There aresocial inequality concerns around carbon taxing, as those with lower incomes would bepaying a higher percentage of their earnings on the carbon tax than those with higherSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 10 of 18incomes for needs such as household heating [ 11,58]. Those with lower incomes andless disposable income would likely have greater changes to their lifestyle and access togoods and services than those with higher incomes, who could just pay any additionaltaxes without a considerable detriment to their lifestyle. PCT and PCA models have beenevaluated to be progressive (those with higher incomes ‘pay’ proportionally more thanthose with lower incomes); in the case of PCT and PCA, this means that those with higherincomes would have a considerably higher proportional emissions reduction than thosewith lower incomes [11,59].Canada passed carbon pricing federal legislation in 2018 that came into effect in 2019.Carbon emissions are taxed per tonne under this legislation, with the cost per tonne risingfrom 2019 to 2022, where the price started at $20 and rose to $50 in $10 increments [ 46]. Themodel is revenue-neutral, with 90% of raised tax funds being returned to the public as arebate in the province the taxes were raised [ 46]. This is instead of the funds being investedin green innovation and enterprise; as suggested in Figure 4, the only beneﬁt of this policyis the assumption that behaviours will be changed by increased taxes and incentivised bythe rebates. The use of rebates would have some impact on counteracting the regressivenature of the tax; however, the lack of investment in further green innovation limits itsoverall environmental impact [58].Any model that limits consumption would likely have a knock-on effect on growthand potentially GDP; if the public have limited spending power, then growth will slow ordrop [ 60]. ‘Green’ industries and technologies, such as electric vehicles, home insulationand photovoltaic panel businesses, may see increases in revenue, but there may be a periodwhere traditional measures of economic health, such as growth and GDP , seem to benegatively impacted [ 61]. However, the preservation of life-giving systems and naturalcapital has a value beyond money, and it is impossible to overstate their importance, as thestalling a PCB may cause to growth is largely irrelevant compared to the cost of not actingon emissions and destroying the atmosphere and systems we need to live [60,61].As all models aim to reduce carbon emissions, it is unlikely any model would have anegative impact on natural capital, although both the CL and CT models do not have strongprotections in place for natural capital as they do not possess any hard limits. Naturalcapital may still be depleted and not renewed under these models.All four models have varying economic beneﬁts and costs. As a carbon tax is regressive,this makes it a less attractive policy, as it could signiﬁcantly impact the wellbeing of thepublic. As discussed further in Section 3.5. the importance of carbon emissions reductionfor the preservation of life-giving systems is far greater than its impact on traditionaleconomic health measures.3.3. SocialFollowing the PESTLE analysis, the PCT and PCA models are broadly similar. Thetrading model would have a greater negative impact socially due to distributional impacts,as the model still allows personal ﬁnances to impact how much an individual can consume,not unlike the carbon tax. The CL model is unlikely to have a drastic overall social impactas it is voluntary and does not involve penalties or costs either ﬁnancial or of other types.A CT policy would have negative distributional effects due to its nature as a regressive taxthat would disproportionally impact those with lower incomes [ 11,12,58]. Whilst moneygenerated from a CT scheme could be reinvested, this would have to be included in lawwith funds ringfenced and may not directly beneﬁt those who bear the burden of thetax [58].An important question to consider is if carbon allowances in PCT and PCA are allo-cated per capita, then how do those that have high consumption requirements through nofault of their own manage on a budget designed without nuance? Per capita allowanceswould simply divide the carbon emissions allocated to the public by the number of mem-bers of the public. However, this would mean those with additional requirements such asdisability and/or mobility issues, and thus particular transport requirements, for example,Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 11 of 18that they may be forced to go without [ 31,62]. Careful design is required within a setcarbon budgeting model to ensure allocation is fair; whilst a per capita allocation seems themost equitable, it is an inﬂexible allocation method that cannot account for differences inlife circumstances.CL would have little impact socially as it is not enforceable and there would be notrading, and if the government publicised an ‘ideal’ footprint for people to follow this couldbe modiﬁed depending on individuals’ needs. A carbon tax is a regressive tax so it wouldhave a far greater ﬁnancial impact on those with lower incomes and thus have considerablesocial impacts (see Section 2.2.) [ 58]. Those with higher incomes would be able to absorbthe additional tax whereas those on lower incomes would not, as they spend proportionallymore of their income on high-carbon goods such as energy to heat their home and personaltransport [31,58].In a PCB model that allows trading, there is signiﬁcant potential for exploitationby those who have the ﬁnances to buy further carbon credits to supplement their ownallowance and potentially rely on the poverty of those with low incomes being forcedto sell carbon credits. Carbon trading is fundamentally unequal, whether in personal orinternational markets. The reason for this is simple: those with more money will alwaysbe able to purchase more carbon, those with less money will often feel the need to selltheir carbon for more money in the immediate sense. If an individual who takes frequentholidays overseas can just pay for more carbon, and someone who feels pressured to selltheir credits for money due to food poverty then must go with even less, this would besocially unequal. Even if trading did not ofﬁcially have a ﬁnancial cost and only existedin theory to allow individuals to distribute any unrequired credits, this could easily beexploited ‘off the books’. For example, if trading had no ﬁnancial cost but credits couldbe donated, richer individuals could pay others for their carbon. A PCB scheme has thepotential to drastically impact people’s lives, but to do so in a socially sustainable way theremust be equity, everyone must have access to a fair carbon allocation that is appropriate fortheir needs, with no one having the ability to pay more to consume more at the expense ofothers. This is not an issue that is much discussed in the existing literature, but the resultsof our PESTLE analysis highlight the concerns about allowing credits to be exchanged formoney instead of in an equitable distribution.In the city of Lahti (Finland), a PCT scheme is being piloted. The CitiCAP app isfunded by the EU’s Urban Innovative Actions programme. This app seeks to reducevolunteers’ carbon emissions from travel [ 8,63]. This model, instead of punishing goingover budget, incentivizes participants to go under budget, with rewards each week. Asit is a voluntary pilot study, there is no enforcement or hard cap. The price of carbonwas increased over the course of the pilot and expressed as  /kg CO 2rather than discretetradable permits, and carbon was not traded between users, but as mentioned, allowancescould be traded in for rewards. In the reported results of the project, 21% of participantsadmitted to ‘cheating’ the system in various ways to earn more reward euros to trade forrewards [ 64]. This demonstrates that even in a voluntary and free system, individuals willseek to gain from it.Only PCA and CL would not have negative impacts on those who have some form ofsocial disadvantage, such as a low income or disability, provided a fair allocation methodwas in place. CL would only not have a negative impact due to its voluntary nature andlack of enforcement. PCA eliminates the potential for abuse in carbon trading and theadvantages wealth would bring. If properly managed, PCA could ensure the distribution ofcarbon allowances was equitable and all under the policy were allocated according to theirneeds. This makes the PCA model the only currently available socially acceptable model.3.4. TechnologigalThe technological implications of the four models vary. For the PCT and PCA models,there have been various proposals to integrate carbon allowance spending with existingcredit/contactless card systems and through online banking or apps [ 26,28,65]. PCT, PCASustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 12 of 18and CL would all require some form of technological or software system to track andmonitor carbon spending.A carbon tax would generate revenue that theoretically could then be invested ingreen technology or innovation; however, in those countries where carbon taxation policieshave been implemented, this additional revenue has often been absorbed into the generalgovernmental budget [ 39]. If a CT policy could be carefully managed and revenue ring-fenced to be invested into green technologies, this could have signiﬁcant beneﬁts for greentechnology development.All models would potentially make fuel-inefﬁcient and high-carbon-costing technol-ogy undesirable due to either the additional tax or cost to the customer in terms of theircarbon allowance. This may encourage the development of efﬁcient technology as thepublic seeks to lower their emissions to maximise use of their budget. There is a possibilitywith a strict PCA or PCT policy that public spending on complex technology would drasti-cally lower if carbon budgets meant they took a considerable proportion of their allowanceto buy. Some technological sectors may be hampered by this.3.5. LegalThe key legal factor comparison to be made is the importance of a mandatory policyversus a voluntary policy. CL is a voluntary model, and there would be no legal implicationsfor the public if they did not abide by the policy. There could be legal implicationsif businesses did not provide carbon information for their products that may requireenforcement, but this would not affect the public’s behaviours. Mandatory policies wouldrequire enforcement, and the type of enforcement would be important to the efﬁciency ofthe policy and the social justice aspect. If a violation of a PCT method was a £500 ﬂat ﬁne,someone on a higher income would be able to simply pay the ﬁne and carry on as theyhave, and someone on a lower income would not be able to. The enforcement would needto be equitable and have the same impact regardless of personal privilege.A discussion can be had on the concept of carbon credits themselves in terms of PCTand PCA schemes; within the literature, the amount of carbon an individual is allocated isoften not given as a weight but as several credits. This implies the allowance in the form ofthese credits is a currency the individual owns, rather than a limit they cannot overstep.If credits are owned by an individual, this implies they have some rights over whetherthey can be traded or not – it is theirs to use as they see ﬁt. However, if the allowance isexpressed as a weight, this implication is lessened. [66].3.6. EnvironmentalPCB models are designed with the intention of reducing GHG emissions, and so theenvironmental component of the PESTLE analysis is vital. Two models are mandatoryand have a ﬁxed cap on emissions (PCT and PCA), and whilst the allocation of emissionswithin the cap may vary, the cap itself is unchangeable. The reduction these models couldbring about is simple to understand, as if an ambitious enough cap was implemented, therequired GHG reductions could be achieved. However, the CL and CT models have nocap and no overall control over GHG emissions, although CT is mandatory, so it wouldcertainly have some impact. The CL model may have a theoretical cap to aim for usinglabelling and diligence from the public, but without this being mandatory, it is unlikely itwould be reached. The reductions a CT model could bring about are similarly nebulous;taxes and charges have changed behaviours at small scales, such as congestion charges andplastic bag charges, but GHG emissions are at a far larger scale and are far more centralto people’s overall consumption [ 67,68]. A carbon tax is regressive, so it may force lowerincome households to change their behaviour due to cost. However, higher income housescan emit three times as many emissions as those of a lower income, and these householdswould be less impacted by the tax and less likely to change consumption [69–71].Whilst PCT has a cap, there are still environmental concerns with this model; if tradingis allowed, then there will never be a surplus, the cap would always be met, and extraSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 13 of 18credits would always be bought up. It would be environmentally beneﬁcial to not alwayshit the emissions cap as this would mean even greater emissions reductions. If carbontrading is disallowed, then those who are thrifty with their allowance may have a surplus,which could then roll over for a certain number of years before being surrendered backto the government, or being surrendered at the end of the year, potentially for somekind of beneﬁt. Even if everyone only had a small surplus, this could create signiﬁcantemissions savings.Three models—PCT, PCA and CL—all would require carbon footprinting (or someother form of carbon accounting) to calculate the carbon emissions associated with theincluded goods and services. A method and deﬁnition of a carbon footprint would need tobe adopted and standardised, with all goods and services being footprinted to the samestandard. The nature of this footprint, the scope of what emissions are included and thecut-offs within processes would require standardisation.What is included in the carbon budget is critically important for a PCT, PCA or CLmethod. If, for example, only hairstyling and bed linen were included, most emissionswould not be accounted for and emissions would largely not be impacted. A PCT, PCAor CL model is only as effective as its scope. For example, the PCT model proposed byDEFRA included the carbon content of energy for use in the home and personal transportpurchases, and aviation was covered through fuel purchases by airline [ 72]. This modeldoes not include food, textiles and other goods created by agricultural processes that areresponsible for around 18% of global emissions [ 73]. By excluding all goods and servicesfrom this sector, a considerable quantity of carbon emissions is unregulated by the policyand can continue to contribute to global climate change.Carbon labelling would require a considerable amount of education surroundingcarbon costs, alongside clear and informative labelling to ensure the public made informedchoices [ 23]. Without any kind of enforcement, they would have no legal reason to spendtime understanding any carbon labelling system. Carbon labelling was trialed in Vanclayet al., (2011), where coloured labels were attached to products indicating if a product was‘below average emissions’ (green), ‘around average’ (yellow) or ‘above average emissions’(black) in a grocery store over three months. Sales of black-labelled products reducedby 6%, and sales of green-labelled products increased by 4%, so only small changes insales over the time period. There was an increase in green-labelled products when theywere comparatively lower priced than products with other coloured labels, with a 20%switch from black-labelled products to green-labelled [ 24]. However, as this study usedthe average emissions that could still be a high value, it may not be the most appropriatescheme as it does not provide the public with detailed information surrounding carbonemissions. Choosing a green-labelled product does not mean the item has low carbonemissions—just lower according to this type of carbon labelling model.The DEFRA synthesis report created in 2008 states: ‘ . . .the key beneﬁt of personal car-bon trading is the increase in the visibility of personal carbon emissions that it creates.’ [ 72].This statement is the key justiﬁcation of the report for the implementation of a PCTmethod rather than other policies such as carbon taxation or upstream trading. Thepublic developing a clear understanding of their carbon emissions, and responsibilityfor them, is put forward repeatedly as a vital component of PCT and a considerationoutside of straightforward feasibility. The assertion is also put forward in other literaturethat TEQ/PCT models allow participants to understand their role in emissions, how theycan limit them and their personal responsibilities [ 74,75]. These reports acknowledgeother policies may be easier to implement but would have less beneﬁts in terms of publiceducation around carbon emissions and public responsibility [74,75].PCA may be the most environmentally acceptable model; although PCT would likelyhave a similar impact, the difference may be the potential impact trading would have on‘using up’ the cap limit. As carbon taxes and carbon labelling have no way to enforce alimit on emissions, they are unlikely to enable the deep cuts to carbon emissions requiredto limit global temperature rises [ 1,3]. Whilst the literature shows that CT can cause cutsSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 14 of 18to emissions, the lack of a cap does not allow this to be enacted with a strong scientiﬁcunderpinning as a reduction policy [39,46–50].The most effective environmental feature is a hard cap on carbon emissions; witha controlled cap, emissions can be reduced as stringently as they need to be, and thereare no grey areas. CL and CT models have no enforcement to limit overall emissionsand therefore could not be relied upon to make cuts deep enough to halt climate change,and therefore cannot be the sole policies to reduce carbon emissions. Both the PCT andPCA models provide hard caps on emissions, and as both function in similar ways, theywould mostly have the same ability to cut emissions [ 27]. However, as trading would likelymean all surplus carbon credits would always be purchased and spent, PCT may be lessenvironmentally effective than PCA. To limit the catastrophic impacts of climate change,every advantage must be taken, and the lowest amount of carbon emitted. This is currentlynot a factor discussed in the literature; the overall assumption is that the cap will be met,and instead of using a cap on emissions as an absolute limit, it is assumed the entire capamount will always be used [5–8,10–22].Whilst PCT is a popular policy model, it would create considerable disparity betweenthose who can afford to purchase more carbon credits via trading and those who eithercould not purchase more or had ﬁnancial pressures that led them to sell credits. A PCTscheme cannot be socially equitable and, on these grounds, is unsuitable as a method tolimit personal carbon emissions. PCA eliminates the trading element, all the public istreated equally in terms of income and no one has an advantage due to their personalwealth. Each individual can be allocated a carbon budget in relation to their needs ratherthan their wealth. A PCA scheme with no trading is an opportunity to reduce inequalitiesthose with lower incomes suffer from, with all individuals treated as equals, with theirspeciﬁc needs respected and accounted for.Carbon taxation suffers from the same concerns as PCT, as those with greater ﬁnancialmeans would simply pay more to continue their lifestyles, and as there is no cap onemissions, there is no certainty CT would create the carbon reductions needed [ 12,39,58].Carbon labelling is voluntary, and whilst this may be attractive politically, require lessﬁnancial investment form the government and not disadvantage individuals socially, likeCT without enforcement, it is very likely people would carry on as usual. Political oreconomic attractiveness will make both CL and CT tempting to governments; however,governments should not take the ‘easier’ path and instead must focus on the environmentaleffectiveness and social equality of policy models.Considering the social and environmental factors as having the highest weight interms of importance, the PCA model would be the recommended model to reduce emis-sions without disadvantaging those with lower incomes. Whilst this model may be lesspopular politically than a voluntary model such as carbon labelling, it would have greatereffectiveness at implementing the reductions almost all governments have pledged to make.Severe cuts in carbon emissions must be made to have any hope of limiting the globaltemperature rise to 1.5C; to do so, radical mandatory measures must be taken.4. ConclusionsWe identiﬁed three main archetypes of PCBs—Personal Carbon Trading, Carbon Taxand Carbon Labelling—and proposed a new policy model, Personal Carbon Allowance(no trading). Each policy model has an array of costs and beneﬁts across the PESTLEfactors. Some impacts are difﬁcult to quantify as two of the PCB models are currentlylargely theoretical, and their impacts when applied at a national or global scale can onlybe assumed. Because PCBs are an environmental policy measure, the greatest weightmust be given to this factor, but as PCBs would directly impact individuals’ lives in everyarea, consideration of social factors must be almost as important. Individuals must not bedisadvantaged due to carbon budgets, and those with higher incomes should not be ableto beneﬁt from a trading-based system where they can exploit their greater wealth to thedetriment of those that must sell their carbon to survive. As this policy seeks to reduceSustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 15 of 18carbon emissions. it must be an effective measure, regardless of popularity with the publicor the discomfort it may cause those currently living lavish lifestyles.Whilst PCT is a popular policy model within this area of literature, it could createconsiderable disparity between those who can afford to purchase more carbon credits viatrading and those who either could not purchase more or had ﬁnancial pressures that ledthem to sell credits. Individuals then may ﬁnd that having sold credits for immediateﬁnancial relief, they no longer have enough carbon credits to then spend that incomeon goods and services they need later in the budget period. A PCT scheme cannot besocially equitable and, on these grounds, is unsuitable as a method to limit personal carbonemissions. PCA eliminates the trading element, all the public are treated equally in termsof income and no one has an advantage due to their personal wealth. Everyone can beallocated a carbon budget in relation to their needs rather than their wealth. A PCAscheme with no trading is an opportunity to reduce inequalities those with lower incomessuffer from, with all individuals treated as equals, with their speciﬁc needs respected andaccounted for.Carbon taxation suffers from the same concerns as PCT, as those with greater ﬁnancialmeans would simply pay more to continue their lifestyles, and as there is no cap onemissions, there is no certainty CT would create the carbon reduction needed. Carbonlabelling is voluntary, and whilst this may be attractive politically, require less ﬁnancialinvestment form the government and not disadvantage individuals socially, like CT withoutenforcement, it is very likely people would carry on as usual. Political attractiveness willmake both CL and CT tempting to governments; however, governments should not takethe ‘easier’ path and instead must focus on balancing the environmental effectiveness andsocial equality of policy models.Considering the social and environmental factors as having the highest weight interms of importance, the PCA model would be the recommended model to reduce emis-sions without disadvantaging those with lower incomes and while providing aggressiveemissions cuts. Whilst this model may be less popular politically than a voluntary modelsuch as carbon labelling, it would have greater effectiveness at implementing the reductionsalmost all governments have pledged to make. Severe cuts in carbon emissions must bemade to have any hope of limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5C; to do so, radicalmandatory measures must be taken.Supplementary Materials: The following are available online at https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/su14159238/s1; Supplementary Materials Part S1: FACTOR QUESTIONS; SupplementaryMaterials Part S2: Table S1: PESTLE analysis of a PCT model according to criteria deﬁned inSupplementary Materials Part S1; Table S2: PESTLE analysis of PCA model according to criteriadeﬁned in Supplementary Materials Part S1; Table S3: PESTLE analysis of carbon labelling modelaccording to criteria deﬁned in Supplementary Materials Part S1; Table S4: PESTLE analysis of carbontax model according to criteria deﬁned in Supplementary Materials Part S1.Author Contributions: Conception, research, draft, editing; A.B.; Conception, supervision, editing,I.D.W. and S.K. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research was funded by the Economic and Social Research Council via a studentshipthrough the South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership, grant number 2342054. The APC was fundedby The University of Southampton.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 16 of 18References1. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5C; Intergovernmental Panel on ClimateChange (IPCC): Geneva, Switzerland, 2018.2. Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. Data—Consumption Emissions 1997–2017 [DATASET]. 2020. Availableonline: https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/uks-carbon-footprint (accessed on 9 October 2020).3. Climate Change Committee. Sixth Carbon Budget ; Climate Change Committee: London, UK, 2020.4. Climate Change Committee. Advice on Reducing the UK’s Emissions—Climate Change Committee. 2021. Available online:https://www.theccc.org.uk/about/our-expertise/advice-on-reducing-the-uks-emissions/ (accessed on 17 June 2021).5. Wallace, K.N.; Irvine, K.N.; Wright, A.J.; Fleming, P .D. Public attitudes to personal carbon allowances: Findings from a mixed-method study. Clim. Policy 2010 ,10, 385–409. [CrossRef]6. Fawcett, T.; Parag, Y. An introduction to personal carbon trading. Clim. Policy 2010 ,10, 29–38. [CrossRef]7. Fawcett, T. Personal carbon trading: A policy ahead of its time? Energy Policy 2010 ,38, 6868–6876. [CrossRef]8. Kuokkanen, A.; Sihvonen, M.; Uusitalo, V .; Huttunen, A.; Ronkainen, T.; Kahiluoto, H. A proposal for a novel urban mobilitypolicy: Personal carbon trade experiment in Lahti city. Util. Policy 2020 ,62, 100997. [CrossRef]9. Perera, R. The PESTLE Analysis , 1st ed.; Nerdynaut: Avissawella, Sri Lanka, 2017; ISBN 9781626209985.10. Parag, Y.; Capstick, S.; Poortinga, W. Policy attribute framing: A comparison between three policy instruments for personalemissions reduction. J. Policy Anal. Manag. 2011 ,30, 889–905. [CrossRef]11. Carbone, J.C.; Morgenstern, R.D.; Williams, R.C.I.; Burtraw, D. Deﬁcit reduction and carbon taxes: Budgetary, Economic, andDistributional Impacts. In Resources For the Future ; RFF Centre: Washington, DC, USA, 2013.12. Elkins, P .; Baker, T. Carbon taxes and carbon emissions trading. J. Econ. Surv. 2002 ,15, 325–376. [CrossRef]13. Haites, E. Carbon taxes and greenhouse gas emissions trading systems: What have we learned? Clim. Policy 2018 ,18, 955–966.[CrossRef]14. Bristow, A.L.; Wardman, M.; Zanni, A.M.; Chintakayala, P .K. Public acceptability of personal carbon trading and carbon tax. Ecol.Econ. 2010 ,69, 1824–1837. [CrossRef]15. Parag, Y.; Eyre, N. Barriers to personal carbon trading in the policy arena. Clim. Policy 2010 ,10, 353–368. [CrossRef]16. Seyfang, G.; Lorenzoni, I.; Nye, M. Personal Carbon Trading: A Critical Examination of Proposals for the UK ; Tyndall Centre forClimate Change Research: Norwich, UK, 2009.17. Roberts, S.; Thumim, J. A Rough Guide to Individual Carbon Trading: The Ideas, the Issues and the Next Steps ; Department for FoodAnd Rural Affairs: London, UK, 2006.18. Fawcett, T. Personal carbon trading: Is now the right time? Carbon Manag. 2012 ,3, 283–291. [CrossRef]19. Howell, R.A. Living with a carbon allowance: The experiences of carbon rationing action groups and implications for policy.Energy Policy 2012 ,41, 250–258. [CrossRef]20. Fawcett, T.; Hvelplund, F.; Meyer, N.I. Making it personal: Per capita carbon allowances. In Generating Electricity in a Carbon-Constrained World ; Elsevier Inc.: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2010; pp. 87–107.21. Hyams, K. A just response to climate change: Personal carbon allowances and the normal-functioning approach. J. Soc. Philos.2009 ,40, 237–256. [CrossRef]22. Upham, P .; Dendler, L.; Bleda, M. Carbon labelling of grocery products: Public perceptions and potential emissions reductions.J. Clean. Prod. 2011 ,19, 348–355. [CrossRef]23. Marek, E.; Raux, C.; Engelmann, D. Personal carbon allowances: Can a budget label do the trick? Transp. Policy 2018 ,69, 170–178.[CrossRef]24. Vanclay, J.K.; Shortiss, J.; Aulsebrook, S.; Gillespie, A.M.; Howell, B.C.; Johanni, R.; Maher, M.J.; Mitchell, K.M.; Stewart, M.D.;Yates, J. Customer response to carbon labelling of groceries. J. Consum. Policy 2011 ,34, 153–160. [CrossRef]25. Narassimhan, E.; Gallagher, K.S.; Koester, S.; Alejo, J.R. Carbon pricing in practice: A review of existing emissions trading systems.Clim. Policy 2018 ,18, 967–991. [CrossRef]26. Seyfang, G.; Lorenzoni, I.; Nye, M. Personal Carbon Trading: Notional Concept or Workable Proposition? Exploring Theoretical, Ideologicaland Practical Underpinnings ; Working Paper; Centre for Social and Economic Research on the Global Environment: Norwich, UK,2007; pp. 1–31.27. Wallace, A.A. Reducing Carbon Emissions by Households: The Effects of Footprinting and Personal Allowances ; Institute of Energy andSustainable Development, De Montfort University: Leicester, UK, 2009.28. Lane, C.; Harris, R.; Roberts, S. An Analysis of the Technical Feasibility and Potential Cost of a Personal Carbon Trading Scheme ;Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs: London, UK, 2008.29. Wintour, P . Miliband Plans Carbon Trading “Credit Cards” for Everyone ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2006.30. Broh é, A. Personal carbon trading in the context of the EU emissions trading scheme. Clim. Policy 2010 ,10, 462–476. [CrossRef]31. Seyfang, G.; Paavola, J. Inequality and sustainable consumption: Bridging the gaps. Local Environ. 2008 ,13, 669–684. [CrossRef]32. Parag, Y.; Strickland, D. Personal carbon trading: A radical policy option for reducing emissions from the domestic sector.Environment 2011 ,53, 29–37. [CrossRef]33. Campaign Live. PepsiCo Explains How It Measured The Carbon Footprint of Walkers Crisps 2009. Available online: https://www.campaignlive.co.uk/article/pepsico-explains-measured-carbon-footprint-walkers-crisps/941668 (accessed on 3 May 2021).Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 17 of 1834. BBC News. What’s the Carbon Footprint of a Potato? 2007. Available online: http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/7002450.stm(accessed on 3 May 2021).35. Smithers, R. Tesco’s Pledge to Carbon-Label All Products Set to Take Centuries ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2010.36. Vaughan, A. Tesco Drops Carbon-Label Pledge ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2012.37. Oatly. Look! Oatly Cartons Come with Carbon Dioxide Equivalents|UK. 2021. Available online: https://www.oatly.com/uk/climate-footprint (accessed on 3 May 2021).38. Quorn. Quorn Unveils Carbon Footprint Labelling of Its Products and Calls on Other Brands to Follow Suit as It Launches NewCampaign to Help Consumers Battle Climate Change. 2020. Available online: https://www.quorn.co.uk/company/press/quorn-unveils-carbon-footprint-labelling-of-its-products-and-calls-on-other (accessed on 3 May 2021).39. Lin, B.; Li, X. The effect of carbon tax on per capita CO2 emissions. Energy Policy 2011 ,39, 5137–5146. [CrossRef]40. Sumner, J.; Bird, L.; Dobos, H. Carbon taxes: A review of experience and policy design considerations. Clim. Policy 2011 ,11, 922–943. [CrossRef]41. Goulder, L.H.; Schein, A.R. Carbon taxes versus cap and trade: A critical review. Clim. Change Econ. 2013 ,4, 1350010. [CrossRef]42. Sorrell, S. An upstream alternative to personal carbon trading. Clim. Policy 2010 ,10, 481–486. [CrossRef]43. Singh, K. India’s Coal Tax Is Key to Stabilizing Its Energy Transition. Center for Strategic and International Studies. 2020.Available online: https://www.csis.org/analysis/indias-coal-tax-key-stabilizing-its-energy-transition (accessed on 7 May 2021).44. Carattini, S.; Kallbekken, S.; Orlov, A. How to win public support for a global carbon tax. Nature 2019 ,565, 289–291. [CrossRef]45. Dissanayake, S.; Mahadevan, R.; Asafu-Adjaye, J. Evaluating the efﬁciency of carbon emissions policies in a large emittingdeveloping country. Energy Policy 2020 ,136, 111080. [CrossRef]46. Nuccitelli, D. Canada Passed a Carbon Tax That Will Give Most Canadians More Money ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2018.47. BBC News. Australia Votes to Repeal Carbon Tax. BBC News. 2014. Available online: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-28339663 (accessed on 7 May 2021).48. Milman, O. Australia Records Biggest Emissions Drop in a Decade as Carbon Tax Kicks In ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2014.49. Taylor, L. Australia Kills off Carbon Tax ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2014.50. Joselow, M. National Carbon Tax Uphel14d by Canada’s Supreme Court. Scientiﬁc American. 2021. Available online: https://www.scientiﬁcamerican.com/article/national-carbon-tax-upheld-by-canadas-supreme-court/ (accessed on 6 May 2021).51. Hansen, P .G.; Jespersen, A.M. Nudge and the manipulation of choice: A framework for the responsible use of the nudge approachto behaviour change in public policy. Eur. J. Risk Regul. 2013 ,4, 3–28. [CrossRef]52. Stratton, S. Nudge Theory Back in Fashion with Tories ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2009.53. Rigby, S. COVID-19: “Nudges” Change Intentions but Not Behaviour—BBC Science Focus Magazine. Science Focus. 2020.Available online: https://www.sciencefocus.com/news/covid-19-psychological-nudges-change-intentions-but-not-behaviour/(accessed on 14 January 2021).54. Yates, T. Why Is the Government Relying on Nudge Theory to Fight Coronavirus? The Guardian: London, UK„ 2020.55. Sodha, S. Nudge Theory Is a Poor Substitute for Hard Science in Matters of Life or Death ; The Guardian: London, UK, 2020.56. Forrest, A. Coronavirus: Scientists Cast Doubt on Government ‘Nudge’ Messaging during Outbreak ; The Independent: London,UK, 2020.57. Sibony, A.L. The UK COVID-19 response: A behavioural irony? Eur. J. Risk Regul. 2020 ,11, 350–357. [CrossRef]58. Callan, T.; Lyons, S.; Scott, S.; Tol, R.S.J.; Verde, S. The distributional implications of a carbon tax in Ireland. Energy Policy 2009 ,37, 407–412. [CrossRef]59. Al-Guthmy, F.M.O.; Yan, W. Mind the gap: Personal carbon trading for road transport in Kenya. Clim. Policy 2020 ,20, 1141–1160.[CrossRef]60. Goodland, R. The concept of environmental sustainability. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 1995 ,2, 1–24. [CrossRef]61. Sandberg, M.; Klockars, K.; Wil én, K. Green growth or degrowth? Assessing the normative justiﬁcations for environmentalsustainability and economic growth through critical social theory. J. Clean. Prod. 2019 ,206, 133–141. [CrossRef]62. Li, J.; Fan, J.; Zhao, D.; Wang, S. Allowance price and distributional effects under a personal carbon trading scheme. J. Clean. Prod.2015 ,103, 319–329. [CrossRef]63. Swain, F. Can Rationing Carbon Help Fight Climate Change? BBC Future. BBC. 2020. Available online: https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20200217-can-rationing-carbon-help-ﬁght-climate-change (accessed on 3 May 2021).64. Uusitalo, V .; Huttunen, A. Motivating Citizens to Reduce Their Mobility Emissions through Personal Carbon Trading ; European Union:Lahti, Finland, 2021.65. Satoh, I. IT-enabled personal-level carbon emission allowance. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2014 ,32, 665–672. [CrossRef]66. California Environmental Protection Agency. California Cap and Trade Program Overview. 2015; pp. 1–2. Available online:www.Arb.caGov (accessed on 21 June 2021).67. Thomas, G.O.; Sautkina, E.; Poortinga, W.; Wolstenholme, E.; Whitmarsh, L. The English plastic bag charge changed behavior andincreased support for other charges to reduce plastic waste. Front. Psychol. 2019 ,10, 266. [CrossRef]68. Zheng, Z.; Liu, Z.; Liu, C.; Shiwakoti, N. Understanding public response to a congestion charge: A random-effects ordered logitapproach. Transp. Res. Part A Policy Pract. 2014 ,70, 117–134. [CrossRef]69. Preston, I.; White, V .; Thumim, J.; Bridgeman, T. Distribution of Household Carbon Emissions in the UK ; Joseph Rowntree Foundation:York, UK, 2013.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 9238 18 of 1870. Hargreaves, K.; Preston, I.; White, V .; Thumim, J. The Distribution of Household CO 2Emissions in Great Britain ; Joseph RowntreeFoundation: York, UK, 2013.71. Fremstad, A.; Paul, M. The impact of a carbon tax on inequality. Ecol. Econ. 2019 ,163, 88–97. [CrossRef]72. DEFRA. Synthesis Report on the Findings from Defra’s Pre-Feasibility Study into Personal Carbon Trading ; Department for EnvironmentFood & Rural Affairs: London, UK, 2008; Volume 26.73. CAIT. CAIT Historical—Explore Historic Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Climate Data Explorer. 2021. Available online: http://cait.wri.org/historical/CountryGHGEmissions (accessed on 24 March 2021).74. Fleming, D.; Chamberlin, S. TEQs Tradable Energy Quotas A Policy Framework for Peak Oil and Climate Change ; The All PartyParliamentary Group on Peak Oil & The Lean Economy Connection: London, UK, 2011.75. Starkey, R.; Anderson, K. Domestic Tradable Quotas: A Policy Instrument for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ; Tyndall Centrefor Climate Change Research: Norwich, UK, 2005.