Citation: Bouremani, N.;Cherif-Silini, H.; Silini, A.; Bouket,A.C.; Luptakova, L.; Alenezi, F.N.;Baranov, O.; Belbahri, L. PlantGrowth-Promoting Rhizobacteria(PGPR): A Rampart against theAdverse Effects of Drought Stress.Water 2023 ,15, 418. https://doi.org/10.3390/w15030418Academic Editors: MuhammadImran Khan, Qaisar Saddique,Muhammad Naveed Anjum andMuhammad ZamanReceived: 9 November 2022Revised: 30 December 2022Accepted: 16 January 2023Published: 19 January 2023Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).waterReviewPlant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR): A Rampartagainst the Adverse Effects of Drought StressNaoual Bouremani1, Hafsa Cherif-Silini1, Allaoua Silini1, Ali Chenari Bouket2, Lenka Luptakova3,Faizah N. Alenezi4, Oleg Baranov5and Lassaad Belbahri6,*1Laboratory of Applied Microbiology, Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Natural and Life Sciences,University Ferhat Abbas of Setif, Setif 19000, Algeria2East Azarbaijan Agricultural and Natural Resources Research and Education Centre, Plant ProtectionResearch Department, Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO),Tabriz 5355179854, Iran3Department of Biology and Genetics, University of Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy in Košice,04181 Kosice, Slovakia4Marine Biodiscovery Centre, Department of Chemistry, University of Aberdeen, Old Aberdeen,Aberdeen AB24 3UE, UK5Department of Biological Sciences, National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, 220072 Minsk, Belarus6Laboratory of Soil Biology, University of Neuchatel, 11 Rue Emile Argand, CH-2000 Neuchatel, Switzerland*Correspondence: lassaad.belbahri@unige.chAbstract: Abiotic stress signiﬁcantly limits plant growth and production. Drought, in particular,is a severe constraint that affects growth and limits agricultural productivity on a global scale.Water stress induces in plants a set of morpho-anatomical (modiﬁcation of root and leaf structure),physiological, and biochemical (relative water content, membrane stability, photosynthesis, hormonalbalance, antioxidant systems, and osmolyte accumulation) changes mainly employed to cope withthe drought stress. These strategies allow the plant to overcome the unfavorable period of limitedwater availability. Currently, a promising alternative is available to improve plant growth andtolerance under drought conditions. The use of osmotolerant plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria(PGPR) as inoculants can alleviate water stress by increasing the water use efﬁciency of the plant.The PGPR improve the tolerance of plants to drought, through changes in the morphology andarchitecture of the root system, production of phytohormones, extracellular polysaccharides, ACC1-(aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate) deaminase, volatile chemicals, and osmolyte accumulation.They may also enhance the antioxidant defense system and induce transcriptional regulation of stressresponse genes. This review addresses the effects of stress on plant growth, adaptation, and responseto drought conditions and discusses the signiﬁcant potential of PGPR to modulate the physiologicalresponse against water scarcity, ensuring plant survival and improving the resistance and growth ofagricultural crops.Keywords: water stress; PGPR; osmotolerance; phytohormones; antioxidants1. IntroductionCurrently, climate change, exponential population growth and increased demand fornutrients are among the major challenges facing agriculture on a global scale. Accord-ing to the most recent United Nations (UN) estimate, the world’s population is currently7.3 billion , and is expected to reach 9.7 billion by 2050 [ 1,2]. Rapid population growth isaccompanied by the loss of fertile agricultural land to human occupation, land degradation,and increased anthropogenic activity, such as industrialization, urbanization, and defor-estation. Changes in land use patterns result in the release of greenhouse gases. Continuedincreases in air temperature and atmospheric CO 2levels ultimately alter the precipitationpattern and distribution, accelerating global climate change [ 2,3]. Global warming is un-fortunately a reality already measured and conﬁrmed in recent years in many countries.Water 2023 ,15, 418. https://doi.org/10.3390/w15030418 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/waterWater 2023 ,15, 418 2 of 35In 2015, the European Environment Agency warned about the disruption of agriculturalcycles in continental Europe. Rising temperatures with little or no precipitation increaseevapotranspiration. A decrease in groundwater levels or water retention by soil particlescauses soil drying and salinization [3,4].Drought affects crop growth and development, as well as agricultural yields. Theincreasing frequency and intensity of drought from year to year are responsible for adramatic drop in food production. Drought stress has been projected to cause a 10% declinein grain production over the past half century, with projections of productivity losses inmore than 50% of arable land by 2050 [ 5]. The International Food Policy Research Institute(IFPRI) has found a sharp decline in most of the world’s major agricultural crops suchas wheat, corn, and rice. According to reports published between 1980 and 2015, waterscarcity has contributed to a 21% reduction in wheat yields and a 40% reduction in cornproduction worldwide [6,7].Water is the most important determinant of crop growth and production, and thusis an important inﬂuence on species distribution and evolution [ 8,9]. Water accounts forapproximately 80–90% of total plant biomass. It is essential for almost all physiologicalprocesses and is a primary source of nutrition and metabolite supply [ 9,10]. Water deﬁcitoccurs when the plant’s water requirements cannot be fully met, which occurs when theamount of water transpired exceeds the amount of water absorbed by the roots. Thisaffects a variety of morphological, physiological, biochemical, ecological, and molecularcharacteristics and processes in plants. Lack of water is a major source of stress for plants;it reduces the total development of plants by decreasing photosynthetic activity, hormonesynthesis, membrane integrity, etc. [11].The need to protect, improve tolerance and increase productivity of staple crops suchas wheat ( Triticum turgidum L.), rice ( Oryza sativa L.), maize ( Zea mays L.), and vegetablesunder water deﬁcit conditions compels researchers to move towards the developmentof several strategies such as the development of drought resistant cultivars, molecularbreeding, genetic engineering, and the use of nanoparticles, ﬁlm culture, superabsorbenthydrogels, and biochar. However, most of these procedures are time consuming, costly,laborious, and unpopular in some places with modest beneﬁts [12,13].A promising alternative to improve plant growth and tolerance under drought circum-stances is the use of PGPR (plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria) as bacterial inoculants.In recent years, numerous studies have shown that the use of beneﬁcial microorganisms canincrease a plant’s resistance to abiotic stresses such as drought, salinity, nutrient deﬁciency,and metal contamination. These beneﬁcial bacteria adapted to osmotic stress improve plantdevelopment and stress tolerance through various direct and indirect means. Therefore,the use of a bacterial inoculant offers an alternative and economically viable strategy tosupport food security under drought conditions [11,14].This review highlights the current knowledge of the effect of drought on plant growth,the mechanisms of plant tolerance to water deﬁcit, and the use of PGPR to improve croptolerance, growth, and productivity under water shortage conditions.2. Effects of Water Stress on Plant GrowthWater stress is one of the most prevalent abiotic factors affecting crop growth andproductivity. Drought is considered a multidimensional stress [ 13]. It inﬂuences thenormal growth and development of plants by affecting their water potential and cell turgor.Alterations and changes in morphological, physiological, biochemical, and even molecularproperties of plants are observed as a result of disruption of water retention and reductionin its use efﬁciency [15] (Table 1).Water 2023 ,15, 418 3 of 35Table 1. Impact of water stress on plant growth and development.Plant Species Effectiveness of Stress ReferenceWheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)-Inhibition of seed germination.-Reduction in seed germination rate, coleoptile weight length, andseed radicle length.[16]Rice ( Oryza sativa L.)-Limitations in photosynthesis, stomatal conductance,transpiration rate,maximum electron transport rate, and carboxylation efﬁciency.[17]Potato ( Solanum tuberosum L.)-Decrease in relative water content (RWC), photosynthetic rate, andchlorophyll a, b content.-Increase in the content of electrical conductivity and the content ofMDA, absissic acid (ABA), proline, soluble sugars, and polyamines.[18]Alfalfa ( Medicago sativa )-Decrease in photosynthesis rate, chlorophyll a and b, a + b content,and Rubisco activity.[19]Cotton ( Gossypium sp.)-Increase in ABA, proline, soluble sugar content, and antioxidantenzyme activities.-Decrease in root size and biomass.-Decrease in cotton yield and quality.[20]Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)-Decrease in photosynthetic pigments, chlorophyll a and b,and carotenoids.-Increase in H 2O2, loss ofelectrolyte, MDA, proline, and protein content.[21]Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)-Reduction in photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, relative watercontent (RWC), grain weight, and grain yield.[22]Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)-Decrease in length, fresh weight, and dry weight of theplant shoots.-Decrease in membrane stability, chlorophyll a, b, relative watercontent (RWC), K, P , and N content in shoots.- Increase in proline, sugar, and antioxidant enzyme activity(SOD, POD, CAT).-Decrease in weight and number of grains per ear.[23]Canola ( Brassica napus L.)-Inhibition and decrease in germination percentage.-Decrease in chlorophyll a and b content.-Strong increase in H 2O2and MDA content, loss of electrolytes (EL).- Increase in proline, antioxidant enzyme activity of SOD, POD, andCAT, concentrations of non-enzymatic antioxidants such as ascorbicacid (AsA), and glutathione (GSH).[24]Sugar beet ( Beta vulgaris L.)-Decrease in chlorophyll a, b, chl a + b carotenoids,and anthocyanins.-Increase in proline content and synthesis, and accumulation ofantioxidant activities (CAT, APX, POX) and radicals (ROS) thatdamage the cell membrane.-Increase in MDA, H 2O2, and membrane degradation, and decreasein membrane stability.-Decrease in relative leaf water content (RWC) and root yield.[25]Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.)-Decrease in height, shoot weight, chl a, b, a + b, and relative leafwater content (RWC).-Increase in MDA and H 2O2content, proline accumulation, andSOD and APX enzyme activity.[26]Maize ( Zea mays L.)-Reduction in size and fresh and dry weight of shoots and roots.-Decrease in chl a, b, a + b, and relative leaf water content (RWC).-Decrease in net photosynthetic, transpiration rate, andstomatal conductance.-Increase in ABA concentrations.-Causes changes in the ultra-structure of chloroplastsand thylakoids.[27]Water 2023 ,15, 418 4 of 352.1. Effects of Water Stress on GerminationDrought can occur at any stage of plant growth. However, seed germination is one ofthe most sensitive and important stages of a plant’s life cycle. Water stress has a profoundeffect on these early stages of development [5,28].The ﬁrst stage of germination is the uptake of water by the dried seeds. The processrequires that the hydration threshold of the embryo is reached. This is an importantprerequisite for the continued initiation of cell elongation and radicle development [ 28].Successful seed germination depends on the availability of sufﬁcient moisture for metabolicactivation to break dormancy or convert stored food into edible forms [ 15,29]. Underwater shortage conditions, seeds cannot absorb enough water, which slows germinationand reduces the total number of plants per unit area. Several studies have shown thatdrought stress reduces germination and growth of seedlings including wheat ( Triticumdurum L.) [16], rice [ 30], ornamental sunﬂower ( Helianthus annuus L.) [31], canola ( Brassicanapus L.) [24], maize, and sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor L.) [32].2.2. Mineral NutritionMineral elements are essential for plant growth and differentiation in all phases ofplant development. Reduced growth following water deﬁcit is attributed to reducednutrient uptake, acquisition, and redistribution [ 33,34]. Plants acquire nutrients based onsoil water availability as nutrients diffuse and ﬂow to the absorbing roots and are absorbedand transported into the plant due to water potential gradients and water ﬂuxes betweenroots, xylem, and leaves [ 35]. Reduced nutrient uptake in drought-stressed plants maybe due to decreased transpiration rates. In addition, when soil moisture is low, stomatamay close, transpiration decreases, and, thus, water and nutrient ﬂux decreases. With thereduction in nutrient uptake comes a reduction in the efﬁciency of nutrient translocationinto plant tissues, resulting in stunted growth and slower biochemical processes [36–39].Plant roots absorb nutrients and water from the soil based on their architecture. Underdrought conditions, insufficient root functionality and slow water diffusion make rootsinefficient in absorbing nutrients from the soil [ 22]. The integrity of the root membraneis essential for plant mineral nutrition. Therefore, maintaining membrane stability is animportant aspect of a plant’s drought tolerance. Damage induced to cell membranes underwater stress conditions is an important factor in the disruption of plant ion homeostasis [ 37,38].It is evident that nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K+), and calcium (Ca2+)are the major nutrients essential for plant growth and metabolism. Calcium plays anessential role in the structural and functional integrity of the membrane and other structures.Decreased Ca2+content in stress conditions has been observed in many plants. In maize,for example, Ca2+content in stressed leaves drops by about 50% while in roots it is highercompared to the control [40,41].Soil N mineralization may be reduced by water stress, ultimately reducing N availabil-ity. Reduced nitrate uptake also affects biochemical activities such as nitrate reductase [ 42].Under stress conditions, the activity in enzymes involved in food uptake decreases; forexample, the nitrate reductase gene is signiﬁcantly downregulated, and nitrate reductaseactivity is signiﬁcantly reduced in plants such as durum wheat, rice, and common barley(Hordeum vulgare L.) [42,43].Many plant species reported reduced K+levels during water shortage due to mem-brane damage and disruption of ion homeostasis. Plants with low K+levels are less resistantto water stress [ 41]. Potassium is also an important mineral element and plays a key role inwater relations, osmotic adjustment, stomatal movements, and ultimately plant droughtresistance. Many plant species have noted decreased K+content under water stress, mainlydue to membrane alteration and disruption of ionic balance [37].Low P levels result in the inhibition of many metabolic processes such as respiration,photosynthesis, cell division, and expansion. Water stress reduces P transfer from soil toroot and its subsequent transport to the stem [ 43]. In dry soil, P mobility is reduced becauseWater 2023 ,15, 418 5 of 35it moves primarily by diffusion. Therefore, the availability of sufﬁcient water in the soil isan essential factor that improves P mobility and uptake [35,39].2.3. Plant Morphology and AnatomyMorphological and anatomical characteristics of plants are severely inﬂuenced bywater stress [ 10,33]. Cell division and differentiation, followed by cell expansion, are basicconditions for plant growth, which are negatively affected by drought, thus damaging theiryield [ 14]. Slower growth is accompanied by a loss of cell turgor pressure, which is anessential step in cell proliferation [ 29,44]. Under water stress, cell expansion slows or ceases,and plant growth is thus delayed. The decrease in water supply reduces the availabilityof essential nutrients to the plant, which therefore reduces growth, characterized by thedecrease in various growth parameters such as plant height, fresh and dry weight of shootsand roots, number of leaves per plant, number of branches per plant, decreased leaf size,reduced number of stomata, thickening of leaf cell walls, cutinization of leaf surface, poorlydeveloped conductive tissue, and induction of early leaf senescence [29,44].Water stress also alters root structure and morphology. To increase water uptake underdehydration conditions, plants expand their roots and produce a branched root system [ 45].Increased allocation of biomass to the roots under drought conditions and expansion ofthe plant root system generally lead to greater water uptake capacity [ 46]. Thus, underdehydrated conditions, the root to stem ratio generally increases, but the total plant biomassdecreases [ 37,47]. Although water saving is an important result of reducing leaf area, itis the cause of yield decrease, as a result of decreased photosynthesis. The decrease inchlorophyll content is a typical symptom in the case of water stress that could modify themorphology of the plants. A high root to aerial part ratio under water stress conditions isrelated to the content of ABA and ethylene in roots and aerial parts and the interaction ofthese two hormones [48].2.4. PhotosynthesisPhotosynthesis is an important physiological process for plant growth. A reductionand/or inhibition of photosynthesis is one of the main effects of drought in plants [ 48].Photosynthesis is particularly sensitive to the effects of water shortage. Soil drought and leafwater deﬁcit lead to a progressive suppression of photosynthesis associated with functionaland structural alterations and rearrangements of the photosynthetic apparatus [38,49].The decrease in photosynthetic rate is the result of a reduction in stomatal conduc-tance, which is one of the ﬁrst strategies used by plants to decrease photosynthetic rate [ 34].Carbon dioxide limitations due to prolonged stomatal closure lead to the accumulation ofreduced photosynthetic electron chain compounds. The accumulation of these compoundscan reduce molecular oxygen and give rise to the production of reactive oxygen species(ROS), thus causing oxidative damage in chloroplasts [ 33,44]. However, the decrease inphotosynthesis under water stress can also be attributed to disturbances in biochemicalprocesses. Exposure to stress can induce alterations in photobiological processes, resultingin damage to the photosystems I and II reaction centers (PSI and PSII), thereby compro-mising photosynthetic efﬁciency. Non-stomatal limitation of photosynthesis has beenattributed to reduced carboxylation, reduced regeneration of ribu-lose-1,5-bisphosphate(PuBP), and reduced functional quantity of ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase(RuBisCO) [3,4].The key enzyme of carbon metabolism in the Calvin cycle is RuBisCO [ 14,33]. Itslevel in leaves is controlled by the rate of its biosynthesis and degradation. The amountand activity of RuBisCO decrease rapidly under water deﬁcit conditions. The decreasein intra-cellular CO 2slows down the Calvin cycle processes, resulting in less NADPHand ATP utilization. This reaction leads to a lack of regeneration of electron acceptors(NADP+, NAD+, and FAD), allowing electron transfer from the electron transport chain tooxygen, and increasing the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cause oxidativestress [17,50].Water 2023 ,15, 418 6 of 35There is a correlation between drought severity and decreased photosynthesis dueto an increase in the activity of RuBisCO-binding inhibitors that reduce its activity. Waterstress also disrupts cyclic and non-cyclic types of electron transport in light reactions ofphotosynthesis [ 8,33]. A lower rate of electron transport negatively affects the process ofphotophosphorylation (ATP biosynthesis) and the reduction in NADPH/H+[3,4]. These al-terations cumulatively disrupt the photosynthetic apparatus under water stress conditions.Both PSI and PSII photosystems in chloroplasts are affected by water-deﬁcient conditionsmainly due to low electron concentration transport rate and accumulation of ROS followingits biosynthesis [47].In addition to RuBisCO, the activities of some other enzymes involved in carbonmetabolisms, such as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase, NADP-malic enzyme, fructose-1 ,6-bisphosphatase, NADP-glyceraldehyde phosphate dehydrogenase, phosphoribulokinase,sucrose phosphate synthase, and pyruvate orthophosphate dikinase, decrease linearlywith decreasing leaf water potential under drought conditions [ 17,50]. Changes in photo-synthetic pigments have also been detected in plants stressed by lack of water, showingreduced or even no pigmentation. Chlorophyll a and b decline in stressed plants, whichdirectly affects plant biomass production. The reduction in photosynthetic pigments resultsin a reduction in energy consumption and carbon demand for chlorophyll synthesis [ 48].According to reports in the literature, carotenoids are less sensitive to water stress thanchlorophylls, which play an essential role in the antioxidant defense system under stressfulconditions [46,51].2.5. Hormonal BalanceVarious plant hormones are synthesized in response to drought stress and manageprocesses related to drought tolerance mechanisms. Phytohormones, such as auxin, cy-tokinin, gibberellin, abscisic acid (ABA), ethylene, salicylic acid, and jasmonic acid, areroutinely produced in the plant system [ 52,53]. These phytohormones act as chemicalmessengers in response to various abiotic stresses. After the perception of the stress signal,phytohormones are released and activate various physiological processes that are veryimportant for growth and vegetative development. Water stress modiﬁes the level of thesephytohormones, resulting in the plant’s ability to perceive and transduce the stress signalto regulate its gene expression [53,54].Abscisic acid (ABA) is a stress hormone which accumulates in response to water stressto regulate plant–water balance and cellular tolerance to dehydration via gene inductionand stomatal closure [ 35]. ABA is rapidly produced in plant chloroplasts and roots inresponse to water stress. ABA is considered a signaling molecule, which then moves tothe plant shoots and leaves to trigger stomatal closure, resulting in decreased water lossfrom the leaf surface [ 44,54,55]. ABA reduces water loss through the regulation of stomatalmovements and recovery of photosynthetic and chlorophyll ﬂuorescence parameters. ABAalso mediates root elongation to reach deep soil water under drought conditions [29,56].Cytokinin (CK) is a phytohormone, which can promote stomatal opening, decreaseroot growth, and stimulate shoot growth. Water stress signiﬁcantly reduces CK levelsin plants in association with stomatal closure [ 54]. Reduced CK concentration facilitatesadaptive plant responses by decreasing water loss and stimulating root growth, improvingsoil water exploration. CK modulates plant growth through changes in plant morphologyand metabolism, acting as indirect factors limiting the damage caused by water stress, thusincreasing plant survival under water-scarce conditions [56].Drought stress signiﬁcantly reduces auxin accumulation in plant tissues. The best-known auxin phytohormone is indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), a derivative of L-tryptophanexcreted by plants [ 53]. IAA is known to modify the architecture of the plant root system byimproving root length, total root surface area, and root branching that leads to improvedwater and nutrient uptake, as well as coordinates cellular defense against water stress [ 26].When plants are exposed to drought and other stress conditions, various modulations ofauxin synthesis, metabolism, transport, and activity take place, A decrease in the level ofWater 2023 ,15, 418 7 of 35IAA under stress conditions can increase the level of ABA in plants to induce modulationof growth by auxins [56].Gibberellin (GA) is a plant hormone that acts as the primary plant growth regulatorand promotes fruit ripening and seed germination. In addition to promoting plant growth,the hormone acts as a protector against stress. It can scavenge ROS and help plants duringwater stress, maintaining the photochemical efﬁciency of photosystem II [55,56].Jasmonic acid (JA) is another key plant hormone that improves plant tolerance towater stress due to its important role in regulating stomatal closure. The rapid increasein endogenous JA content is an immediate plant response to water stress, but the contentdecreases to its baseline level with prolonged stress [ 56]. It plays an important role indrought tolerance by reducing oxidative damage and lipid peroxidation, stimulatingABA production and osmolyte accumulation [ 56,57]. Additionally, JA is able to affectenzymatic activities by modifying gene transcription, translation, and post-transcriptionalmodiﬁcations, as it can also adjust the water potential of plant cells [58].In addition, ethylene (ET) has been reported to be a negative regulator of droughtstress tolerance. Under stress, responses to ET lead to an overall effect on root growth,leaf expansion, photosynthesis, grain development, and leaf senescence. Reduction inshoot growth and the ethylene-mediated stomatal response to water stress are signiﬁcantlydependent on ABA accumulation in shoots [37].In addition to the accumulation of ABA, drought typically causes an increase in theaccumulation of brassinosteroids, a hormone that promotes water retention in plants andreduces ion leakage in response to water scarcity and extreme temperatures [ 33,44,59].Brassinosteroids have been implicated in a wide range of physiological responses in plants,such as stem elongation, pollen tube growth, leaf curvature, epinasty, ethylene biosynthesis,proton pump activation, vascular differentiation, regulation of gene expression, nucleicacid, protein synthesis, and photosynthesis [56].Salicylic acid is a versatile stress-sensitive plant hormone that is significantly producedin plants to trigger induced systemic tolerance (IST) against biotic and abiotic stresses [ 10,14].Salicylic acid may play a defensive role in drought stress resistance. Salicylic acid increasesthe activity of oxidative enzyme systems such as catalase (CAT) and superoxide dismutaseSOD [ 13]. Endogenous salicylic acid content decreases significantly during moderate water stresstreatment due to the increase in ABA content under the stress treatment. It has been proposedthat in response to water stress, an antagonistic interaction between these two hormones occursnaturally in several species [26].In general, plant hormones do not function in distinct pathways but rather depend oneach other at different stages to control signaling pathways, development, and response toenvironmental stresses.2.6. Relative Water Content (RWC) and Membrane StabilityLeaf relative water content (RWC) is an important indicator of plant water statusthat represents the balance between water uptake by root hairs and water loss throughtranspiration [ 5,60]. RWC, leaf water potential, stomatal resistance, transpiration rate,leaf temperature, and canopy temperature are important factors affecting plant waterpotential [ 43]. The decrease in RWC is one of the most common consequences of waterstress. This decrease is proportional to the severity of drought. It also depends on the plantspecies, growth stage, and duration of stress [23,61].Low RWC reduces the water potential of leaves and closes the stomata, which lowerthe transpiration rate, leading to the increase in leaf temperatures [ 62]. Elevated leaftemperatures can denature proteins, especially enzymes, and alter membrane stability,which causes an imbalance in cellular metabolites such as photosynthesis, respiration, andnutrient concentration, as well as the synthesis of essential macromolecules [ 63]. Membraneinstability is mainly due to lipid peroxidation caused by reactive oxygen species producedby water stress [43,64].Water 2023 ,15, 418 8 of 352.7. Oxidative Stress: Production of ROSDrought causes the overproduction and accumulation of ROS in plant cells such assuperoxide radicals (O2 ), hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2), singlet oxygen (O 2), and hydroxylradicals (OH). ROS are produced by several cellular compartments including chloroplasts,mitochondria, and peroxisomes. Chloroplasts are a potentially important source becauseexcitatory pigments in thylakoid membranes can mix with O 2to form strong oxidants.ROS generation in peroxisomes is primarily due to increased photorespiration, whichleads to H 2O2generation by glycolate oxidase [ 49,65]. In general, the increase in ROSproduction is proportional to the severity of drought [ 13,65]. It is associated with a varietyof physiological and biochemical disorders resulting in oxidative damage to lipids, proteins,and other cellular macromolecules, including DNA and RNA, and can eventually lead tocell death [13].Lipid peroxidation damages the plasma membrane and reduces its stability, leadingto loss of cellular content and rapid dehydration. Malondialdehyde (MDA) is the endproduct of lipid peroxidation, and MDA content has been used as a marker of membranelipid peroxidation [ 28]. Oxidative proteins can also be the result of oxidative stress, leadingto loss of enzymatic activity and formation of cross-linked aggregates [ 38]. In addition,increased ROS accumulation promotes the degradation of chlorophyll molecules, ultimatelyreducing photosynthetic performance [66] (Figure 1).Water 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 39   causes an imbalance in cellular metabolites such as photosynthesis, respiration, and nu-trient concentration, as well as the synthesis of essential macromolecules [63]. Membrane instability is mainly due to lipid peroxidation caused by reactive oxygen species produced by water stress [43,64]. 2.7. Oxidative Stress: Production of ROS Drought causes the overproduction and accu mulation of ROS in plant cells such as superoxide radicals (O2−), hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2), singlet oxygen (O 2), and hydroxyl radicals (OH). ROS are produced by severa l cellular compartments including chloro-plasts, mitochondria, and peroxisomes. Chloro plasts are a potentially important source because excitatory pigments in thylakoid membranes can mix with O 2 to form strong ox-idants. ROS generation in peroxisomes is primarily due to increased photorespiration, which leads to H2O2 generation by glycolate oxidase [49,65]. In general, the increase in ROS production is proportional to the severity of drought [13,65]. It is associated with a variety of physiological and biochemical disorders resulting in oxidative damage to lipids, proteins, and other cellular macromolecules, including DN A and RNA, and can eventu-ally lead to cell death [13]. Lipid peroxidation damages the plasma membrane and reduces its stability, leading to loss of cellular content and rapid dehydration. Malondialdehyde (MDA) is the end product of lipid peroxidation, and MDA conten t has been used as a marker of membrane lipid peroxidation [28]. Oxidative proteins can also be the result of oxidative stress, lead-ing to loss of enzymatic activity and formation of cross-linked aggregates [38]. In addition, increased ROS accumulation promotes the degradation of chlorophyll molecules, ulti-mately reducing photosynthetic  performance [66] (Figure 1).  Figure 1. Effects of drought on plant growth  and plant adaptation mechanisms.   Figure 1. Effects of drought on plant growth and plant adaptation mechanisms.3. Water Stress Tolerance Mechanisms Involved by PlantsPlants are able to sustain their growth to stay alive under water stress conditions.Tolerance is deﬁned as the ability of plants to grow, thrive, and reproduce under severestress conditions [ 67]. Drought tolerance is a complex defense mechanism in which plantsuse strategies to escape or avoid drought. However, these strategies are not exclusive andindependent. Plant adaptation to water deﬁcit is enabled by physiological, morphological,biochemical, and molecular responses. Responses can range from the molecular level tothe whole plant level [ 68]. In addition, how plants respond to drought varies considerablywith different levels of organization, growth stage, age, plant species, drought intensity,and duration [67,69].Water 2023 ,15, 418 9 of 353.1. Morphological AdaptationPlants induce a series of structural changes to adapt to water deﬁcit circumstances.Plants possess many adaptive traits to withstand this stress; among the most importantis the architecture of the root system [ 70], which plays an important role in the responseto water deﬁcit. This architecture consists of the topology of the root system, the spatialdistribution of main and lateral roots, and the length and number of various secondaryroots. Roots have morphological plasticity that depends on the physical conditions of thesoil [ 13]. In addition, plants will extend their root systems to increase water uptake andthus develop highly branched roots [ 71,72]. Thick and deep root systems are beneﬁcial tothe plant absorbing water deep and far [73].In addition to the root system, water stress is also associated with changes in leafstructure. In response to drought, plants reduce water loss by closing their stomata. Thisreduces water loss through transpiration and improves water use efﬁciency [ 4,74]. Themorphological changes in the leaf are not negligible and help the plant minimize water lossand better adapt to this stress. In addition, decreasing leaf area, increasing leaf thickness,and rolling leaves reduce transpiration. Cuticles and hairy leaves contribute to increasedtissue water retention [ 4]. Lenticular wax biosynthesis on the surface of aerial plant parts isalso closely related to plant resistance to water deﬁcit [73].Under water stress conditions, increasing the root to shoot ratio allows for water andnutrient uptake and maintenance of osmotic pressure. The root to stem ratio has been usedas a criterion to deﬁne a plant’s ability to withstand drought [67,71].3.2. Osmolyte Accumulation: Osmotic AdjustmentWater stress affects the osmotic balance of plant cells. Osmotic adjustment is an impor-tant feature to maintain plant water status and delay tissue dehydration under water stress.Plants synthesize and accumulate osmolytes or compatible solutes that play an importantrole in plant responses to water stress. The primary function of compatible solutes is toprevent water loss and maintain cell turgor and the plant’s water uptake gradient. Theaccumulation of these metabolites in the cells leads to an increase in osmotic potential(osmotic adjustment) and ultimately results in a greater capacity for water uptake by theroots and its retention in the cells [ 75,76]. In addition to their role in osmoregulation, com-patible solutes show other functions such as protection of enzymes, membrane structureand integrity, maintenance of protein conformation at low water potential, neutralizationof oxygen radicals, and stabilization of cellular macromolecule structures [76].These compatible solutes are water soluble. They do not interfere with normal bio-chemical reactions, but replace water in the environment of nucleic acids, proteins, andmembranes under water deﬁcit conditions. The main categories of compatible solutes are:proline, glycine betaine, soluble sugars, polyols, and inorganic ions [48,77].Proline is one of the best-studied and most accumulative amino acids. For example,under water stress, proline concentration can exceed 80% of the total amino acid pool insome plants, while it is only 5% in control plants [ 75,77]. The accumulation of prolinein the cytoplasm indicates that the plant is under stress conditions, depending on thevegetative stage of the plants and the severity of the drought [ 48]. The increase in cytoplas-mic concentration facilitates water uptake by the cells, maintains osmotic balance in theprotoplasm, and reduces toxic ion levels [ 28]. Proline also protects cellular structures andbinds to proteins to form a hydrophobic backbone that stabilizes macromolecules (DNA,chloroplasts, and mitochondria) against oxidative damage caused by ROS. Thus, prolinestimulates the activities of antioxidant enzymes (CAT, SOD) that detoxify ROS [ 60]. Theincrease in proline level under drought conditions has been reported in different crops,including brown mustard ( Brassica juncea L.) [78], chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) [79], durumwheat [80], and sunﬂower [81].Sugars provide carbon and energy for normal cellular metabolism and control plantgrowth and development. Drought stress causes rapid accumulation of soluble sugars suchas glucose, sucrose, fructose, etc. Soluble sugars and alcohol sugars are key componentsWater 2023 ,15, 418 10 of 35of osmotic adjustment in plants [ 25]. They are important osmo-protectants that providemembrane protection and remove toxic ROS generated during oxidative stress, due to theirreducing ability that helps degrade ROS such as H 2O2[37,82].Glycinebetaine (GB) (N,N,N-trimethylglycine) is another osmoregulatory moleculethat plants produce in response to adverse growth conditions. It plays an important role instress tolerance by stabilizing macromolecules through intermolecular water balance [ 83].Its highly soluble physiological state and low viscosity due to its zwitterionic natureallow for cell protection through protein and membrane stabilization, PSII protection,pigmentation stabilization, and ROS reduction [ 84,85]. GB has been shown to preserveplasma membranes by reducing MDA levels [86].Another strategy also acquires speciﬁc inorganic ions such as Na+, K+, H+, Ca2+, andMg2+, in addition to appropriate chemicals to maintain the intracellular water potential.These ions help alter the osmotic potential of the cell by regulating the concentrationof inorganic ions and produce changes in cell structure and function [ 84,87]. Thus, theaccumulation of inorganic ions allows plants to decrease energy consumption for osmoticadjustment by passively taking up more Na+[87].3.3. PhytohormonesPhytohormones play an important role in plant growth and development as theyrespond to environmental signals. Plants modify their phytohormone levels to reduce thenegative impacts of stress [ 88]. The variation in plant response to water stress is modulatedand regulated by several plant hormones that promote phenotypic variation.Hormones play important functions in the control of plant growth and development,as well as in the adaptation of plants to water shortage stress [ 56,89]. Under water deﬁcitconditions, the endogenous levels of auxins, GA, and CK are reduced; on the contrary, ABAand ET levels are increased [29,38].When plants are exposed to water stress, ABA alters root structure by decreasingROS accumulation in the roots and also promotes root extension to increase deep wateruptake [ 20,90]. Increased ABA also serves as a signal, initiating a signaling cascade in guardcells to regulate cell disruption [ 53,91]. ABA regulates osmotic homeostasis and acts as achemical signal for the induction of genes related to enzymes that detoxify ROS, proteintransporters, transcription factors, regulation of aquaporin activity, and post-transcriptionalmodiﬁcations that control guard cell swelling during stomatal closure [ 37,53]. It alsopromotes proline accumulation, dehydrating protein, and Late Embryogenesis AbundantLEA synthesis, which are involved in the regulation of osmosis and other plant defensesystems [73,92].Auxins such as IAA improve root structure, promoting new root growth by disruptingcytokinin-induced root apical dominance. A thick root system is necessary for droughttolerance. Auxins have an indirect but important effect. Water stress reduces endogenousauxin synthesis, which typically occurs when ABA and ethylene concentrations are in-creased [ 93]. Auxins also inﬂuence water stress tolerance by increasing metabolic balanceand ROS detoxiﬁcation and activating a variety of stress tolerance-related genes [93,94].CKs are up- and downregulated during water stress. The increase or decrease in CKlevels is determined by the duration and intensity of stress [ 94]. CKs play a role in plantadaptation to drought by controlling genes involved in CO 2assimilation, electron transportrate, photosynthetic rate, and chlorophyll levels [ 95]. The decrease in CKs production andaccumulation in roots is due to the mobilization of CKs to shoots, where they slow andprevent leaf and stem senescence. CK signaling interacts primarily with ABA to regulateplant yield under water stress [91]. ABA and CKs have opposite functions under droughtconditions. Increased levels of ABA and reduced levels of CKs promote stomatal closureand minimize transpirational water loss [96].Water 2023 ,15, 418 11 of 353.4. Antioxidant Mechanisms: Reduction in ROS GenerationDrought stress induces the overproduction of ROS that cause oxidative damage toplants. However, ROS also act as a secondary message to activate plant defense mechanismsto ensure tolerance against this damage [85,97].Under water scarcity conditions, plants develop defense mechanisms through theinduction of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant activities. Antioxidant enzymesinclude CAT, peroxidase (POD), SOD, glutathione reductase (GR), ascorbate peroxidase(APX), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), monodehydro-ascorbate reductase (MDHAR), anddehydro-ascorbate reductase (DHAR) [ 40,98]. Non-enzymatic antioxidants include -carotene, ascorbic acid, tocopherol, glutathione, ﬂavonoids, phenolic compounds, andcarotenoids [99,100].Both mechanisms mitigate the effects of reactive oxygen species and help plants main-tain cellular homeostasis and minimize oxidative damage [ 43,99]. Water stress increasesthe expression of genes, encoding antioxidant enzymes SOD, CAT, APX, and GPX, whichare signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced by species type, plant metabolic state, plant growth stage, andstress intensity and duration [45,101].SOD is an important enzyme that acts as ﬁrst line of defense and serves as a ROSscavenger. SOD converts O2 to hydrogen peroxide (H 2O2) using different substrates toelectron donors. CAT, POD, and APX break down H 2O2into molecular oxygen and wa-ter [65,102]. They also convert lipid hydroperoxide to alcohol, reducing lipid peroxidationand membrane damage [ 103]. Carotenoids are also involved in the elimination of harmfulfree radicals while allowing the protection of proteins of the photoreceptor complex, thestability of the thylakoid membrane, and the photo-oxidation of chlorophyll through theirantioxidant properties. In addition, low-molecular-weight ﬂavonoids have an excellentability to scavenge free radicals and reduce lipid loss [49]. Antioxidants such as ascorbateand glutathione act as an enzyme cofactor as well as an electron donor/acceptor for APXand GPX [89,104].An increase in enzymatic antioxidant activity under water deﬁcit has been observed inseveral plant species including: rice [ 105], barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) [100], maize [ 106,107],wheat [ 23,101], and chickpea [ 108]. Therefore, both enzymatic and non-enzymatic defensemechanisms play essential roles in the detoxiﬁcation and scavenging of ROS, as well as inincreasing tolerance to drought stress (Figure 2).Water 2023 , 15, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 39    Figure 2. Scheme of ROS generation in various organe lles during drought stress and their removal by enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant mech anisms. Drought boosts ROS production in a variety of ways. During drought stress, low CO 2 levels in chloroplasts induce a reduction in NADP+ regeneration via the Calvin cycle, resulting in an increase in electron leakage to O 2 to create O2− and, as a result, the production of mo re ROS. Furthermore, under a CO 2-limited environment, pho-torespiration in C 3 plant leaf peroxisomes results in the production of phosphoglycolate. It stimu-lates ribulose1 and 5 bisphosphate (RuBP) oxygenation, which might result in enhanced H 2O2 gen-eration, owing to phosphoglycolate breakdown. Th e rate of mitochondrial respiration rises as the severity of the drought grows, to compensate for the reduced rate of ATP synthesis in the chloro-plast, resulting in greater ROS formation in the mitochondria. Scavenging of ROS occurs via en-zymes such as ascorbate peroxidase (APX), catalase (CAT), peroxiredoxins (PRX), glutathione pe-roxidase (GPx), and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), as well as non-enzymatic scavenging via ascorbic acid, glutathione, and flavonoids, among others.  3.5. Molecular Responses: Stress Proteins, Tr anscription Factors, and Resistance Genes Plant responses to drought are extremely complex, as different morphological and physiological changes are mediated by comple x signaling pathways that activate or in-hibit downstream processes [109]. Along wi th physiological and biochemical changes, drought also induces changes at the molecular level regarding the induction/modification of gene expression, activation of regulatory proteins, and initiation of plant signaling to counter the effect of these stressors [110].  External drought stimuli are perceived and sensed by sensors which are located on the plasma membrane or exist freely in the cytosol. These extracellular signals are then transformed into intracellular signals via a variety of secondary messages present in the cell including ROS, ABA, sugars, and calcium Ca2+ ions, as well as transcriptional regula-tors with important roles in various signaling pathways [84,111]. After detecting stress, downstream signaling activates several stress -responsive genes. There are two types of stress-responsive genes: (1) genes that encode protective proteins providing direct protec-tion of the plant cell from stress such as he at shock proteins (HSPs) or chaperones, LEA proteins, osmoprotectants, ROS detoxifying enzymes, aquaporins (AQP), and transport-ers (sugars and proline), and (2) regulatory genes that enable stress signal perception and transduction within plant cells through gene ral and specific regulatory-signaling path-ways including transcription factors, mitoge n-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and cal-cium-dependent protein ki nase (CDPK) [109,111].  In addition, the expression of  various stress-related genes can be controlled by tran-scription factors. TFs are able to bind to DNA sequences and activate and/or repress Figure 2. Scheme of ROS generation in various organelles during drought stress and their removal byenzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant mechanisms. Drought boosts ROS production in a variety ofways. During drought stress, low CO 2levels in chloroplasts induce a reduction in NADP+regenerationvia the Calvin cycle, resulting in an increase in electron leakage to O 2to create O2 and, as a result,the production of more ROS. Furthermore, under a CO 2-limited environment, photorespiration in C 3Water 2023 ,15, 418 12 of 35plant leaf peroxisomes results in the production of phosphoglycolate. It stimulates ribulose1 and5 bisphosphate (RuBP) oxygenation, which might result in enhanced H 2O2generation, owing tophosphoglycolate breakdown. The rate of mitochondrial respiration rises as the severity of thedrought grows, to compensate for the reduced rate of ATP synthesis in the chloroplast, resultingin greater ROS formation in the mitochondria. Scavenging of ROS occurs via enzymes such asascorbate peroxidase (APX), catalase (CAT), peroxiredoxins (PRX), glutathione peroxidase (GPx),and dehydroascorbate reductase (DHAR), as well as non-enzymatic scavenging via ascorbic acid,glutathione, and ﬂavonoids, among others.3.5. Molecular Responses: Stress Proteins, Transcription Factors, and Resistance GenesPlant responses to drought are extremely complex, as different morphological andphysiological changes are mediated by complex signaling pathways that activate or inhibitdownstream processes [ 109]. Along with physiological and biochemical changes, droughtalso induces changes at the molecular level regarding the induction/modiﬁcation of geneexpression, activation of regulatory proteins, and initiation of plant signaling to counterthe effect of these stressors [110].External drought stimuli are perceived and sensed by sensors which are located onthe plasma membrane or exist freely in the cytosol. These extracellular signals are thentransformed into intracellular signals via a variety of secondary messages present in thecell including ROS, ABA, sugars, and calcium Ca2+ions, as well as transcriptional regu-lators with important roles in various signaling pathways [ 84,111]. After detecting stress,downstream signaling activates several stress-responsive genes. There are two types ofstress-responsive genes: (1) genes that encode protective proteins providing direct protec-tion of the plant cell from stress such as heat shock proteins (HSPs) or chaperones, LEAproteins, osmoprotectants, ROS detoxifying enzymes, aquaporins (AQP), and transporters(sugars and proline), and (2) regulatory genes that enable stress signal perception andtransduction within plant cells through general and speciﬁc regulatory-signaling pathwaysincluding transcription factors, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and calcium-dependent protein kinase (CDPK) [109,111].In addition, the expression of various stress-related genes can be controlled by tran-scription factors. TFs are able to bind to DNA sequences and activate and/or represstranscription of downstream target genes. These TF-controlled genes are further controlledby either the ABA-dependent or ABA-independent pathway [67,112].ABA links stress perception to cellular transcriptional reprogramming for stress adap-tation. In addition, protein kinase and phosphatase participate in protein phosphorylationand dephosphorylation, respectively. Protein phosphorylation and dephosphorylationplay an important role in plant tolerance to abiotic stress [ 113]. Several protein kinases arereported to be expressed in response to osmotic stress. Mitogen-activated protein kinase(MAPK) cascades are one of the major cell signaling components in eukaryotic cells and aregenerally activated in response to hyperosmotic stress. There is considerable evidence that avery early step in water deﬁcit signal transduction in plant cells involves MAPK pathways.For example, a change in plasma membrane ﬂuidity could induce a conformational changein a receptor that activates a downstream kinase cascade. We also ﬁnd that sucrose-relatedkinases without fermentation (SNF1) are induced in response to hyperosmotic stresses.CDPKs are another important group of kinases that are activated in response to osmoticstress and activate calcium signaling [84,112].Thus, stress proteins (AQP , LEAs, and HSPs) are highly expressed during abiotic stress.They are mostly water soluble and provide stress tolerance for plants by hydrating cellularstructures [ 110,114]. LEA proteins are the most abundant stress proteins and are related toboth water and cold stress in plants. These proteins are active in seeds that contain highlevels of ABA [ 115]. These proteins have a low molecular weight (10–30 kDa) and theyaccumulate at the time as seed desiccation (at a later stage of embryogenesis), as well asduring persistent water deﬁcit conditions, under cold conditions, or high salinity [ 110,116].Water 2023 ,15, 418 13 of 35LEA are expected to play an important role in ion sequestration during cellular dehydrationor water deﬁcit. LEA proteins are hydrophilic and thermostable. Their structural ﬂexibilityfacilitates interactions with other macromolecules, such as membrane proteins, leadingto cell membrane stability during water stress [ 114,116]. According to research, LEAproteins function as stabilizers, hydration buffers, membrane protectors, antioxidants, ROSscavengers, ion chelators, and chaperones [ 117,118]. These proteins were ﬁrst detectedin the late development of cotton ( Gossypium hirs spit ) seeds by Dure in 1981. The LEAgene family has later been detected in many crops including: cotton ( Gossypium spp.) [ 119],wheat [115], and tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.) [120].AQP are water transport channels in plants. They are highly selective in regulatingprocesses such as seed germination and stomatal movements [ 121,122]. They are intrinsicmembrane proteins that simplify and control the passive exchange of water moleculesacross plant membranes. In plants, they are widely found in plasma and vacuolar mem-branes. They are abundantly expressed in roots, where they are involved in soil wateruptake [ 122]. It is widely accepted that in most plant species, water uptake and transcellularwater ﬂow in roots are largely mediated by PIP (Plasma membrane Intrinsic Protein) andTIP (Tonoplast Intrinsic Protein) [ 123]. These are the most abundant AQP in the plasmamembrane and tonoplast of plant cells, respectively [ 124,125]. During water stress, aqua-porin regulates root hydraulic conductivity, and when moisture is low, the expressionof aquaporin-encoding genes is downregulated, reducing the ability of roots to take upwater. They maintain cellular homeostasis by limiting water loss and increasing membranepermeability [111].HSPs are stress proteins that stabilize proteins from denaturation or activate theirdegradation after plants have overcome a period of stress [ 126]. HSP production is notlimited to high temperature stress. It has been reported that some HSP genes are alsoexpressed under osmotic stress in several plants: rice [ 127], maize [ 128], chickpea [ 91],Arabidopsis thaliana [126], wheat [ 129], and quinoa ( Chenopodium quinoa ) [130]. For example,HaHsp17.6 and HaHsp17.9 genes are expressed in sunﬂower under water stress; homologsto these genes are found in the plant Craterostigma plantagineum, and their level increasesunder drought stress via ABA-dependent mechanisms [110].HSPs help improve various physiological phenomena, including membrane stability,water and nutrient efﬁciency, and photosynthesis [ 128]. Based on previous research, HSPscan help plant defense through three roles: (1) refolding denatured proteins, (2) participat-ing in the process of reﬁnement of newly produced proteins, and (3) eliminating proteinaggregation and, consequently, cellular homeostasis [114,131].4. Osmotolerance through Plant Growth-Promoting RhizobacteriaDrought tolerant PGPR are considered an effective alternative for agriculture underwater stress. The use of PGPR is considered a synergistic long-term biological techniqueto cope with the adverse effects of drought. Through their colonization potential andsymbiotic interactions with plants either on the rhizosphere surface or within plant cells,microbial communities are currently receiving increased attention for improving cropproductivity and providing resistance to abiotic stress [ 131–134]. Several beneﬁcial drought-resistant rhizobacteria are being isolated and tested to induce water stress tolerance inplants under controlled conditions. PGPR such as Paenibacillus polymyxa ,Achromobacter sp.,Azospirillum brasilense ,Pseudomonas sp.,Burkholderia ,Arthrobacter , and Bacillus have beenshown by several studies to improve drought tolerance in A. thaliana [135], tomato [ 26,136],wheat [ 64,88], and maize [ 2]. PGPR have remarkable potential to modulate the physiologicalresponse against water scarcity, thereby ensuring plant survival (Table 2).Water 2023 ,15, 418 14 of 35Table 2. Alleviation of drought stress in several crops through the application of new and diversiﬁedplant growth-promoting rhizobacteria.PGPR Strains Plant Species MechanismsBeneﬁcial Features Related to DroughtToleranceReferencePseudomonasﬂuorescens ;P . putidaMyrtle ( Myrtuscommunis L.)IAA,Nitrogenﬁxation-Enhancement of plant biomass (shoot and root trimming),greater water and nutrient absorption.-Increase in chlorophyll a, b, and carotenoid concentrationwhile decreasing electrolyte loss and MDA.-Stimulation of enzymatic (CAT, SOD, POD) andnon-enzymatic (Phenol and ﬂavonoids) antioxidant defense.[137]Achromobacterxylosoxidans ;Enterobacter cloacaeMaize ( Zea mays L.)ACC deaminaseIAA,-Increase in plant size, height, shoot dry weight, grainproduction, photosynthetic rate, transpiration rate,chlorophyll a, b, and a + b, and stomatal conductance.[138]Bacillus sp.;Azospirillum lipoferum ;Azospirillum brasilenseWheat ( Triticumturgidum . L)IAA, ABA, CK-Increase in seed germination and root system growth.-Improved plant biomass (fresh and dry weight), RWC,photosynthetic pigment concentration (Chl a, b, andcarotenoids), nutrient absorption, and plant yield.-Decrease in EL while maintaining membrane stability.-Increase the amount of osmolytes (proline and sugar) andantioxidant enzymes (CAT, SOD, APX).[5]Bacillusamyloliquefaciens54Tomato(Solanumlycopersicum .L)EPS-Improved RWC, root vigor, antioxidant enzyme activity(SOD, APX, CAT, POD).-Decrease in MDA content and increase in nced1 genetranscription and ABA content.[136]Azospirillum lipoferumWheat ( Triticumaestivum . L)--Decrease in oxidative membrane damage.Improved plant growth, RWC, grain yield, and leafphotosynthesis.-Increase in antioxidant enzymes such as SOD, POD, andnon-enzymatic phenolics.[139]Azospirillumbaldaniorum Sp245Basilic ( Ocimumbasilicum L.)ISR-Increase in the content of phytohormones in plant xylem(SA, JA, ABA, etc.)-Increase in chlorophyll a, b, a + b, and anthocyaninconcentration, as well as photosynthesis.[140]Streptomyces pactumAct12Wheat(Triticum aestivum L.)--Increase in root and shoot growth and fresh weight, as wellas osmolyte sugar and proline accumulation, RWC.-Decrease in MDA content and increase in ABA content andnon-enzymatic antioxidant.-Stress resistance gene expression SnRK2, EXPA2, EXPA6,P5CS[141]Bacillus sp. WM13-24;Pseudomonas sp. M30-35Ray-grass ( Loliumperenne L.)IAA, ACCdeaminase, EPS-Improved root architecture (RSA), shoot trimming, andfresh and dry pea shoots and roots-Increase in photosynthetic rate, RWC, total chlorophyll,total nitrogen, and phosphorus levels in shoots.-Decrease in MDA content, relative membrane permeability(RMP), and H 2O2buildup.-Increase in antioxidant enzyme activity (CAT, POD) andproline accumulation.[142]Pseudomonasﬂuorescens WCS417;Bacillusamyloliquefaciens GB03Peppermint(Mentha piperita L.)IAA, ACCdeaminase-Increase in growth through increasing leaf area, fresh anddry weight of shoots and roots.-Decrease in MDA levels and increase in both enzymatic(PX, SOD) and non-enzymatic (Phenol, ascorbic acid)antioxidant activities.[45]Pseudomonasazotoformans FAP5Wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)EPS,ACC deaminase,IAAIncrease in the rate of germination.Increase in plant biomass (root and leaf size, dried and freshroot and leaf weight).-Increase in RAS/RT ratio, soil aggregation, photosynthesis,and chlorophyll content.-Reduction in MDA levels and antioxidant enzyme activity.[64]Bacillus subtilisWheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)ACC deaminase-Improved plant development in terms of size, fresh peas,and dry weight of shoots and roots.-Increase in RWC, chlorophyll levels, minerals, andantioxidant enzyme activity (SOD, CAT, POD)[143]Water 2023 ,15, 418 15 of 35Table 2. Cont.PGPR Strains Plant Species MechanismsBeneﬁcial Features Related to DroughtToleranceReferenceBacillus spp. Rice ( Oryza sativa L.)ACC deaminase,IAA, EPS.-Improved germination, plant biomass, and yield whilereducing membrane and oxidative damage.[144]Bacillussp. MN-54;Enterobacter sp. FD-17;Pseudomonasﬂuorescens 1Maize ( Zea mays L.)ACC deaminase,ABA-Increase in RWC, chlorophyll a, b, and carotenoidconcentration, and photosynthesis.Increase in the activity of antioxidant enzymes(SOD, GPX, CAT).[145]Planomicrobiumchinense P1;Bacilluscereus P2Sunﬂower ( Helianthusannuus L.)PhosphatesolubilizationProduction ofphytohormone(GA, AIA)-Improved shoot length, root length, fresh and dried rootbiomass.-Increase in quantity of chlorophyll, carotenoids, leafproteins, sugar, and phenolic substances.-Reduction in MDA levels.[146]Bacillus subtilis ;Azospirillum brasilenseWheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)EPS-Increase in germination rate, seedling vigor index, andpromptitude index.-Improved plant biomass (height, dry weight, fresh weightof shoots and roots, leaf area).-Increase in water potential and chlorophyll content(Chl a, b, and carotenoids).-Increase in osmolyte content (proline, amino acids, sugarsand proteins) and antioxidant enzymes(SOD, CAT, and POD).[69]Pseudomonas sp. N66 Sorghum bicolor L. ACC deaminase-Improved growth and root system architecture (RSA) viaregulation of phytohormones (GA, AIA, CK).-Activates systemic tolerance induced (ISR) by the signalinghormones brassinolides, SA, and JA and the signalingmolecules sphingosine and psychosine.-Reduced ethylene levels.-Increase in antioxidant activityand osmolyte accumulation(proline, glutamic acid, choline).[68]Bacillus subtilis HAS31Potato ( Solanumtuberosum L.)ACC deaminase-Increase in chlorophyll concentration, soluble proteins,total soluble carbohydrates, and antioxidant enzymeactivity (CAT, POD, SOD).[147]PseudomonasﬂuorescensMaize ( Zea mays L.) ACC deaminase-Enhanced chl a, b, and total chl content, as well as F0 andFm photosynthetic activities and yield.-Increase in proline accumulation, total soluble sugars, andantioxidant activity (CAT, POD).[148]Pantoea alhagiLTYR-11ZTWheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)IAA, EPS-Improved growth and fresh weight of shoots and roots.-Increase in the amount of sugar and chlorophyll andreduction in MDA content.[149]Bacillus sp.;Pseudomonas sp.Tomato(Solanum lycopersicumL.)ACC deaminase,EPS, IAA.-Increase in the rate of germination.-Increase in plant biomass and photosynthesis.-Improved resilience to drought and recovery.[150]Ochrobactrum anthropiDPB13; Pseudomonaspalleroniana DPB15Pseudomonasﬂuorescens DPB16;PseudomonaspalleronianaFinger millet(Eleusine coracana L.)ACC deaminase,IAA.-Increase in growth metrics (shoot and root size and weight),total chlorophyll, and nutrient supply (N, P , K Na+, Ca2+).-Reduction in H 2O2and MDA levels and improvedmembrane stability.-Increase in proline, phenol, and antioxidant enzymeactivity accumulation (SOD, GPX, APX).[151]Pseudomonas sp.;Serratia marcescensWheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)ACC deaminase,IAA, EPS-Decrease in reactive oxygen species.-Enhanced osmolyte accumulation, chlorophyll, andcarotenoid content in plant leaves, and Zn and Fe content inleaves are all beneﬁts of improved plant water status.[152]Bacillus cereus AKADA1-1, Pseudomonasotitidis AKAD A1-2;Pseudomonas sp.AKAD A1-16Soybean ( Glycine maxL.)ACC deaminase,IAA, EPS-Improved plant biomass (height, fresh weight, dried shootand root weight), RWC, and chlorophyll content.-Increase in proline, soluble carbohydrates, andprotein content.-Decrease in MDA and H 2O2levels.[153]Water 2023 ,15, 418 16 of 35Table 2. Cont.PGPR Strains Plant Species MechanismsBeneﬁcial Features Related to DroughtToleranceReferenceOchrobactrumpseudogrignonenseRJ12; Pseudomonas sp.RJ15; Bacillus subtilisRJ46Pea ( Pea sativum L.)Black gam(Vigna mungo L.)ACC deaminase.-Improved plant biomass, root and shoot length, andseed germination.-Increase in the accumulation of osmolytes (proline, phenol),chlorophyll content, and RWC.-Decrease in ACC accumulation in plants and decrease inproduction of the ACC oxidase gene.-Increase in antioxidant enzyme activity (CAT, POD).[154]Pseudomonas lini DT6;Serratia plymuthicaDT8Jujubier ( Ziziphusjujuba )ACC deaminase,IAAEPS-Increase in plant biomass via pruning (fresh and dry peasfrom branches and roots), RWC.-Increase in the phosphate and nitrogen content of the leaves.-Reduction in the amount of MDA and ABA in the leaves.-Increase in SOD and POD antioxidant enzymes.[155]BacillusamyloliquefaciensMMR0Candle millet(Pennisetum glaucum )ACC deaminase-Increase in seedling vigor and germination rate.-Enhanced plant growth factors such as total chlorophylland RWC.-Reduction in MDA content, whereas proline, APX, andSOD levels were elevated.-Signiﬁcant reduction in the relative expression of droughtresponse marker genes (DREB-1E) and ethylene responsefactor (ERF-1B), with enhanced APX1 and SOD1gene expression.[156]Pseudomonas SP2ArabidopsisthalianaACC deaminase,ABA,IAA-Improved plant biomass, RWC, and chlorophyll levels andreduction in MDA.-Improved SP2 colonization and survival.-Increase in osmolyte, glycine-betaine, andproline accumulation.[157]Bacillus subtilisOkra(Abelmoschusesculentus L.)--Increase in osmolyte (sugar and proline) accumulation,non-enzymatic antioxidants (glutathione GSH, ascorbateAsA), and enzymatic antioxidants (SOD, CAT, APX, GR,DHAR, MDHAR).-Increase in photosynthesis and reduction in MDAand O2 levels.[158]Bacillus altitudinisFD48; BacillusmethylotrophicusRABA6Rice(Oryza sativa L.)IAA, CK, GA,ACC deaminase-Increase in root and shoot growth, root to shoot ratio R/S,RWC, photosynthetic pigments (Chl a and b), andproline content.-Reduction in oxidative stress by increasing the activity ofantioxidant enzymes (CAT, SOD, POD, APX).-Increase in the number of productive tillers, the quantity ofseeds, the grain weight, and the harvest index.[159]Bacillus thuringiensisRhizo SF 23; BacillussubtilisRhizo SF 48Sunﬂower(Helianthus annuus )ACC deaminase.-Improved plant growth, proline content, and antioxidantenzyme activity (APX, SOD).-Reduction in MDA content.[160]Klebsiella sp.;Enterobacter ludwigii;Flavobacterium spWheat (Triticumaestivum L.)EPS, ACCdeaminase, IAA.-Increase in the quantity, size, and dry weight of roots andshoots, as well as RWC and RAS/RT.-Reduction in H 2O2, MDA, and EL while preservingmembrane integrity and stability.-Decrease in proline and soluble sugars accumulation.-Enhanced expression of resistance genes (DREB2A, CAT1).[161]Arthrobacter arilaitensis ;StreptomycespseudovenezuelaeMaize ( Zea mays L.)ACC deaminase,phosphatesolubilization,IAA, siderophoreproduction andammonia-Increase in leaf number, height, fresh weight, dry weight ofshoots and roots, and chlorophyll content.[162]Bacillus spp.Maize(Zea mays L.)IAA, nitrogenﬁxation,Phosphatesolubilization-Enhanced growth parameters (height, fresh weight,dry weight).-Increase in the amount of photosynthetic pigments (chl a, b,and total chl).-Decrease in MDA, H 2O2, and antioxidant enzyme activity(SOD, APX, POD, CAT).[11]Water 2023 ,15, 418 17 of 35Table 2. Cont.PGPR Strains Plant Species MechanismsBeneﬁcial Features Related to DroughtToleranceReferenceKlebsiella sp. (LEW16) Wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)EPS, IAA-Increase in germination rate, root morphology, andseedling growth parameters (height, fresh and dry weight,and root diameter).[163]BacillusamyloliquefaciensQST713Alfalfa ( Medicagosativa L.)IAA, EPS-Increase in plant growth and biomass (dry, fresh weight ofshoots and roots), RWC, photosynthesis, chlorophyll a, b,carotenoid content, and antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD,CAT, POD, APX).-Reduction in H 2O2, O2 content.-Induction of systemic resistance.[164]Gluconacetobacterdiazotrophicus Pal5Rice ( Oryza sativa L.)Nitrogen ﬁxation,IAA-Improved plant development (leaf area, root and shootsize), root system architecture (RSA), and RWC.-Increase in photosynthetic activity (Fv/Fm), photosyntheticpigment (Chll a, b, a + b, and carotenoids), phytohormoneconcentration (AIA, GA1, GA3, and zeatin), and osmolyteaccumulation (trehalose, -tocopherol).-Activation of the expression of genes involved inroot formation.[165]B. amyloliquefaciensRHF6; B.amyloliquefaciensLMG9814; Bacillus sp.AGS84Spinach ( Spinaciaoleracea L.)IAA, phosphatesolubilization,NH 3-Increase in plant biomass and germination rate.-Increase in the content of photosynthetic pigments (Chll a,b, a + b, and carotenoids), as well as Fv/Fm photosynthesis.[166]Planomicrobiumchinense strain P1;Bacillus cereus strainP2Wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)EPS, IAA-Increase in plant biomass (fresh weight, dry weight of rootsand shoots), RWC, and micro/macronutrient accumulation(such as Ca, Mg, Na, K, Cu, Cr, Zn, and Fe).-Decrease in MDA content, antioxidant enzyme activity(POX, CAT, POD), and proline content.[167]Mesorhizobium cicero .;B. subtilis ;B. mojavenssChickpea ( Cicerarietinum L.)IAA, ACCdeaminase-Improved plant growth (height, fresh peas, shoot and rootdry weight), nutrient accumulation in seeds and leaves, rootcolonization, and survival.-Improvement in seed yield.[168]Ochrobactrum sp.EB-165;Microbacterium sp.EB-65; Enterobacter sp.EB-14; Enterobactercloacae strain EB-48Sorghum ( Sorghumbicolor .L.)IAA, N2 ﬁxation,phosphatesolubilization,siderophoresynthesis, ACCdeaminase-Increase in proline accumulation, relative water content(RWC), and membrane stability index.-Improved root system development and topology (height,fresh weight and dry weight).-Induction of particular gene upregulation: sbP5CS2,sbP5CS1.[169]Bacillus endophyticusPB3; Bacillus altitudinisPB46; Bacillusmegaterium PB50Rice ( Oryza sativa L.)ACC deaminase,IAA, EPS, GA-Increase in (RWC), total sugars, proteins, proline, phenolics,potassium, calcium, and ABA.-Increased the expression of stress-related genes (LEA,RAB16B, HSP70, SNAC1, and bZIP23).[170]Pseudomonahelmanticensis ;PseudomonasWheat ( Triticumaestivum L.)Phosphatesolubilization,IAA.-Increase in seed and plant growth (height, fresh weight,and dry weight of shoots and roots).-Increase in the availability of phosphorus in the soil as wellas its uptake by the shoots.[171]Streptomyces sp. RA04;Nocardiopsis sp RA07Sorghum ( Sorghumbicolor L.)ACC deaminas,Phosphatesolubilization,IAA, sederophoresynthesis-Increase in plant growth, photosynthesis, andchlorophyll levels.-Reduction in MDA level while increasing the activity ofantioxidant enzymes SOD, CAT, and APX.[172]Streptomyces strainsIT25; StreptomycesC-2012Tomato ( Solanumlycopersicum L.)ACC deaminas,Phosphatesolubilization,sederophoresynthesis-Increase in plant growth and fruit output.-Reduction in CAT and GPX activity while increasingrelative water, proline, and sugar content.-Inhibition of ERF1 and WRKY70 stress transcript genes.[173]Bacillus megaterium ;B.licheniformisWheat ( Triticumturgidum L.)ACC deaminaseIAA,-Increase in seed germination.-Increase in plant development (shoot and root), RWC,chlorophyll a, b, and carotenoids, and osmolyteaccumulation (proline, sugar, protein).-Decrease in MDA and electrolytes (EL).-Increase in the activity of antioxidant enzymes (SOD, APX,PODL, CAT, GR).-Stimulation of water stress-related protein production.[174]Water 2023 ,15, 418 18 of 35PGPR improve plant tolerance to drought through various direct and indirect mecha-nisms including changes in root system morphology and architecture, production of phyto-hormones, extracellular polysaccharides (EPS), ACC (1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate)deaminase, volatile chemicals, and osmolyte accumulation. They may also enhancethe antioxidant defense system and induce transcriptional regulation of stress responsegenes [1,44] (Table 2).4.1. Improvements in Physiological and Morphological Processes4.1.1. Germination EnhancementSeed germination is a critical stage in the plant life cycle. The individual performanceof a plant during the early stages of its life can have a signiﬁcant impact on its developmentand yield. The use of PGPR to increase the rate of seed germination has been proven by sev-eral research studies. A higher germination rate indicates better growth and developmentof seedlings, which is essential for agricultural yields [64,175–177].Seed treatment with the osmotolerant bacterial strain Enterobacter spp. improved thegermination rate and seedling vigor index of both tomato Arka Meghali and Pusa Rubyvarieties under osmotic stress conditions compared to untreated seeds [ 178]. Inoculation ofonion ( Allium cepa L.) seeds under osmotic pressure conditions (-0.8 MPa) by an osmotoler-ant actinobacterium Citricoccus zhacaiensis B-4 resulted in an improved germination rateand seedling vigor [ 179]. The increase in germination rate of chickpea in the presence oftwo concentrations of PEG (15% and 30%) was proved through inoculation of P . putida (RA)in two varieties of chickpea compared with untreated seeds [ 176]. A study by Galeanoet al. [ 180] found that maize seed inoculation with B. cereus VBE23 under water stresssigniﬁcantly increased germination rate and seed germination parameters. InoculationofBurkholderia sp. L2 and Bacillus sp. A30 also proved an increase in germination oftomato seeds under water stress [ 181]. A signiﬁcant increase in germination of wheat andcucumber ( Cucumis sativus L.) seeds occurred under osmotic stress when inoculated withPaenibacillus beijingensis BJ-18 and Bacillus sp. L-56 [182].4.1.2. PGPR Improve Root ArchitectureThe root system is most affected by drought due to direct exposure with the soil.Modification of root system architecture (RSA) is an important response of plants to wa-ter deficits [ 183,184]. Several studies have shown that inoculation of plants under stressfulconditions with osmotolerant PGPR strains improves plant growth and RSA. The developmentof roots and the formation of absorptive hairs lead to an increase in the soil surface occupied bythe roots and consequently confer plants with better absorption [ 185,186]. PGPR can modifythe root architecture through the secretion of low-molecular-weight signaling molecules suchas 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (DAPG), produced by fluorescent Pseudomonas [187].A study by Jochum et al. [ 188] demonstrated that Bacillus sp. 12D6 and Enterobactersp. 16i inoculation of wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) and maize under water stress conditionsresulted in increased root size, diameter, root branching, greater surface area, and greaternumber of root branches associated with improved water stress tolerance and total cropyield when compared to the non-inoculated plant. Inoculation of wheat with the endophyticstrain B. subtilis improved the size and fresh and dry weights of roots and shoots underwater deﬁcit conditions [ 143]. Inoculation of P . putida MTCC5279 of chickpea plantsimproved the size of primary roots and increased the number of lateral roots of absorbinghairs. Additionally, it allows an increase in root nodules for better nitrogen ﬁxation underwater stress conditions [176].Thus, inoculation with Ochrobactrum spp. strain NBRISH6 improved root length, dryweight, and hair branching of maize under stress conditions [ 189]. Inoculation of Bacillusspp. into sorghum under drought stress resulted in improved soil moisture and increasedroot dry biomass, thus improved sorghum seedling growth [ 184].Bacillus subtilis GOT9improve drought and salinity resistance in A. thaliana and cabbage ( Brassica campestris L.)by increasing lateral root growth and development [190].Water 2023 ,15, 418 19 of 354.1.3. PGPR Improve Shoot GrowthImproved shoot growth under drought conditions through the application of PGPR isuseful for increasing crop growth and productivity. Plants inoculated with PGPR strainshave proven near normal shoot growth rates, resulting in increased crop productivity [ 191].It has been shown in several studies that PGPR improved biomass and yield of plants underwater stress. Naveed et al. [ 192] and Naveed et al. [ 193] proved that under drought stress,maize and wheat plants inoculated with the endophytic bacteria Enterobacter sp. FD17 andB.phytoﬁrmans strain PsJN had more root and shoot biomass than non-inoculated plants.García et al. [ 194] also showed that inoculation of maize seedlings with osmotic stresstolerant Azospirillum sp. bacteria promoted plant growth when water is limited. InoculationofPlanomicrobium chinense P1 and B. cereus into sunﬂower signiﬁcantly increased shootand root length, fresh and dry shoot, and root biomass by providing resistance duringdrought [ 146]. Inoculation of P . putida NBRIRA and B. amyloliquefaciens NBRISN13 aloneor in consortium improved growth parameters and yield of chickpea grown under waterdeﬁcit conditions [195].4.2. PGPR Improve Relative Water Content RWCIt has been shown by several studies that plants inoculated with PGPR have higherRWC compared to non-inoculated plants. The increase in RWC improves the droughtresistance of plants. The mechanism by which PGPRs improve plant RWC is not yet clear.Researchers speculate that PGPR may help increase plant RWC through exogenous synthe-sis of osmoprotectants, such as proline, that increase cell membrane stability and decreaseelectrolyte leakage and water loss. PGPR can also help plants through the productionof hormones such as IAA that enhance root growth and lateral root formation, therebyincreasing water uptake, decreasing leaf transpiration, improving nutrition and physiology,and controlling stomatal closure and metabolic activities. [196,197].A study showed that inoculation of wheat and A. thaliana with A. brasilense Sp245increased water potential and relative water content RWC [ 197]. Pistachieri ( Pistacia veraL.) plants inoculated with Staphylococcus sciuri had a 10% increase in RWC compared tonon-inoculated seedlings at the same combined salinity and drought stress levels comparedto non-inoculated plants [ 198]. Sandhya et al. [ 199] showed improvements in RWC inmaize after inoculation with P . putida GAP-P45 by increasing proline content comparedto non-inoculated plants. Inoculation of harefoot clover ( Trifolium arvense L.) with theIAA-producing endophyte P . azotoformans ASS1 improved leaf RWC in the absence andpresence of drought stress [200].4.3. Osmotic Adjustment through the Synthesis and Accumulation of Solute CompatibleOsmotic adjustment is one of the key adaptations at the cellular level that helpsplants tolerate drought-induced damage. PGPR inoculation can affect osmoregulatorycapacity by increasing soluble sugar, protein, and proline contents, leading to a higherwater potential gradient and thus improving plant water uptake and growth under stressconditions [ 174,201]. The most commonly acclimated osmolytes in water-stressed plantsand bacteria include proline, trehalose, and glycine betaine [202,203].In general, these drought-resistant rhizobacteria, such as A. brasilense ,Bacillus spp. andB. thuringiensis excrete proline, glycine betaine, trehalose, and soluble sugars in responseto water stress [ 204], which function synergistically with plant-derived osmolytes andpromote plant growth [ 1]. It was observed that plants with increased levels of free aminoacids and soluble sugars after treatment with PGPRs tolerate drought stress. [14,131].Proline has been recognized as a multifunctional signal molecule, which at highconcentration contributes to increasing stress tolerance in plants [ 48]. Thus, a positivecorrelation has been established between proline accumulation and drought tolerance inplants [ 12]. It protects plants from stress through various means, such as detoxiﬁcation ofreactive oxygen species, contribution to osmotic adjustment, and stabilization of nativeenzyme, protein, and membrane structures [ 205].Sphingomonas sp. LK11 improved droughtWater 2023 ,15, 418 20 of 35tolerance in inoculated soybean ( Glycine max L.) plants by increasing the synthesis of sugarsand amino acids (glycine, glutamate, and proline) [ 206]. In another study, inoculation of adrought-tolerant bacterium, B. subtilis , into drought-stressed okra ( Abelmoschus esculentusL.) was shown to increase appropriate solutes such as total sugar and proline [ 158]. Theincreased accumulation of proline in inoculated plants contributes to increased droughttolerance by supporting the osmotic potential of drought-exposed plants, through activationof the gene of proline synthesis [ 158]. Li. et al. [ 141] showed that S. pactum Act12 enhancesthe development of PEG-induced drought-stressed wheat plants by increasing prolineand sugar levels in inoculated plants. Sugar accumulation under water stress preservescell turgor; in addition to functioning as an osmolyte, sugar inﬂuences physiological andbiochemical processes such as growth, development, ﬂowering, and senescence [141,201].GB confers water stress tolerance to plants [ 207]. It is a quaternary ammoniumcompound with osmoprotective functions, and protects plants by stabilizing both thehighly ordered quaternary structure of membranes and proteins [202]. The amount of GBincreases under both saline and drought conditions. GB acts as a molecular chaperone andassists in enzyme folding and the recovery of protein functions. Inoculation of maize withKlebsiella variicola F2,Raoultella planticola YL2, and P . ﬂuorescens YX2 increased choline andGB accumulation, which improved RWC and dry matter weight (DMW) under differentstress regimes [208].Inoculation of Pseudomonas SP2 increased the drought tolerance of A. thaliana ; inocu-lated plants increased GB accumulation, proline, RWC, chlorophyll, and reduced MDA inshoots compared to the non-inoculated plant [202].Although these studies showed that PGPR promote proline accumulation, other stud-ies found that PGPR reduce proline accumulation [ 64,161,167,176,209]. These discrepanciescan be attributed to the different mechanism of PGPR to combat drought, changes inbacterial species, bacterial communication mechanisms with plants, bacterial interaction,and severity of drought stress. Therefore, it can be concluded that the accumulation ofosmoprotectants allows osmotic regulation of plants, thus mitigating drought stress.In addition, trehalose is a non-reducing disaccharide. It plays an important rolein maintaining the osmotic potential of plants by protecting biological structures fromdesiccation damage [ 29]. Studies have reported that high levels of trehalose have a positiveimpact on the survival and yield of bean ( Phaseolus vulgaris ) plants nodulated by rhizobialstrain Rhizobium etli after severe and long periods of drought [ 210]. Vílchez et al. [ 211]also proved the protection of tomato and green bell pepper ( Capsicum annuum L.) plantsagainst drought by P . putida KT2440 that expresses otsAB genes for trehalose biosynthesiscompared to untreated plants.PGPR, genetically engineered to produce excess trehalose, can give plants droughtendurance, as evidenced by modiﬁed R. etli and bean plant response showing more nodules,higher biomass production, and better recovery from drought stress in plants treated withmodiﬁed R. etli than those treated with the wild type [212].4.4. Exopolysaccharide ProductionExopolysaccharides (EPS) play an important role in mitigating water stress for mi-crobial and plant populations. Bacteria form EPS as a survival strategy under adverseconditions. Bacterial EPS have been widely studied in the rhizosphere for their role in waterretention. They have been shown to help hydrate plants and increase water and nutrientuptake from the soil and can enhance plant growth, development, and survival [135,163].EPS form an attachment zone between soil particles, root systems, and bacteria thatincreases soil aggregation and colonization process, and maintains a long-term relationshipwith the host plant [ 155,213]. Plants treated with EPS-producing bacteria show increasedresistance to water stress. It has been postulated that EPS provides a microenvironment thatretains water and dries out more slowly than the surrounding environment, thus protectingbacteria and plant roots from desiccation [135].Water 2023 ,15, 418 21 of 35EPS produced by PGPRs promote permeability by improving soil aggregation andmaintaining a higher water potential around the roots. This increases nutrient uptake andstimulates plant development and water stress tolerance [69,135].Another interesting feature of microbial water stress alleviation is the improvement inthe adherent soil to root tissue ratio (ASR/RT) following inoculation with EPS-producingbacteria. It has been postulated that higher EPS content and improved RAS aggregationmay help plants absorb a greater volume of water and nutrients from the rhizosphericsoil, resulting in improved plant growth; in addition, this phenomenon is also known tocounteract the negative effects of water stress [ 199]. Exopolysaccharides form hydrophilicbioﬁlms that provide protection against aridity during osmotic stress by increasing thewater retention potential of the soil and regulating the distribution of biological carbonsources [ 213].The inoculation of sunﬂower with Pseudomonas GAP-P45 producing a largeamount of EPS improved germination, plant growth by increasing plant biomass, andRAS/RT ratio under water stress compared to non-inoculated seedlings. EPS productionallowed better colonization by the stump, increased the volume of soil attached to theroot, and improved the stability of soil aggregates [ 199]. Another study by Ilyas et al. [ 69]showed the fundamental role of EPS production in drought tolerance and osmotic stress.Co-inoculation with B. subtilis and A. brasilense produced a large amount of EPS and, withthe production of phytohormone (IAA, ABA, GA), increased the germination rate of wheatseeds‘ seedling vigor index. In addition, it improves osmotic potential, water potential,and chlorophyll content (Chl a, b, and carotenoid), osmolyte content (proline, sugars, andproteins), and causes a signiﬁcant increase in antioxidant enzymes (SOD, CAT, and POD),conferring better drought resistance [69].Inoculation of P . azotoformans FAP5 strain generating EPS increased the germinationrate of wheat seeds under PEG concentrations, generating osmotic stress [ 64]. Recently, astudy by [ 163] showed improved germination rate, colonization, and growth parameters(root diameter, root area, root and shoot length, and seedling dry biomass) in wheat plantsinoculated with Klebsiella sp. LEW16 under water-limited conditions due to differentpolyethyleneglycol (PEG) concentrations.4.5. Modiﬁcation of Phytohormone Activity by PGPR under DroughtThe production of phytohormones by PGPR is considered one of the most importantmechanisms by which many rhizobacteria promote plant growth. Auxins, GAs, ABA, andCKs are among the major groups of phytohormones that help plants tolerate abiotic andbiotic stresses. Under drought stress conditions, PGPR promote plant growth through theproduction and modiﬁcation of plant growth regulators and phytohormones [88,146].IAA is the most abundant phytohormone and is produced generally by 80% of PGPRspecies [ 10,57]. IAA produced by bacteria can loosen plant cell walls, increasing the amountof root exudates, which further supports the growth of rhizosphere microorganisms and thecolonization process [ 110,135]. Plants inoculated with IAA-producing bacteria showed greatertolerance to drought stress [ 46]. They showed an increase in shoot biomass and changes in theroot architecture, increasing mineral nutrition and water interactions [15,110].Pereira et al. [ 214] showed that co-inoculation of maize plants under drought con-ditions with two osmotolerant and IAA-producing PGPR, Cupriavidus necator 1C2 and P .ﬂuorescens S3X, increased plant biomass and also increased nitrogen (N) and phosphorus(P) use efﬁciency. Under low moisture content (55% ﬁeld capacity), the bacterial consortium(Mesorhizobium cicero ,B. subtilis , and B. mojavensis ) presenting IAA increased shoot androot biomass and improved water stress tolerance in chickpea compared to non-inoculatedplants [168].In addition, PGPR can regulate the expression of auxin signaling or transport synthesisgenes in plants. Inoculation of B. altitudinis FD48 altered the architecture of the rice rootsystem, which was established by examining the expression pattern of genes encodingdefense responding to primary root and lateral root formation. Inoculation of rice withB. altitudinis FD48 altered the endogenous level of IAA by inﬂuencing the genes encodingWater 2023 ,15, 418 22 of 35auxin expression, changing the architecture of the root system, and ensuring the survivalof the plant under water stress [186].Similarly, the study by Barnawal et al. [ 13] suggests that PGPR confer water stresstolerance to wheat plants by increasing IAA content through an indirect mechanism: byreducing ABA/ACC (the ethylene precursor) content and modulating the expression of aregulatory component (CTR1) of the (CTR1) ET signaling pathway.ABA is a hormone commonly referred to as stress hormone that further inducesphysiological changes in the plant and modulates its growth [ 57,110]. Plants inoculatedwith PGPR showing high concentration of ABA have an improved ability to toleratedrought. ABA is involved in stomatal regulation by regulating leaf transpiration rate androot hydraulic conductivity or upregulating AQP [ 1,69,110]. Asghari et al. [ 201] reportedthat inoculation of A. brasilense increased ABA accumulation in pennyroyal mint ( Menthapulegium L.) plants under drought and watered conditions compared to non-inoculatedplants. Thus, ABA accumulation may increase root hair elongation and regulate auxintransport in plant root tips [ 215]. Soybean plants inoculated with P . simiae Au under water-limited conditions produced more ABA and SA and less ET, resulting in improved droughttolerance compared to non-inoculated plants [216].However, the regulation of hormones under stress conditions is a complex phe-nomenon. Other studies have reported a decrease in ABA content in plants treated withPGPR; Cur áet al. [ 217] showed that maize plants inoculated with Herbaspirillum seropedicaeZ-152 and A. brasilense SP-7 presented an improvement in plant biomass and droughttolerance with lower levels of ABA and ethylene in comparison with non-inoculated plants.Another study by Zhang et al. [ 155] also showed a reduction in ABA accumulation, anincrease in growth parameters, and IAA accumulation in Jujube ( Ziziphus jujuba L.) plantsinoculated with P . lini DT6 and Serratia plymuthica DT8 compared to non-inoculated plants.Drought stress causes a reduction in CK concentration [ 95]. The use of PGPR canincrease CK concentrations under water-limited conditions. Selvakumar et al. [ 179] showedthat inoculation of tomato plants with CK-producing bacteria Citricoccus zhacaiensis andB. amyloliquefaciens improved photosynthesis, transpiration, relative water content, andyield of plants during water stress.GAs are plant hormones that regulate a number of physiological functions in plantsat different stages of development [ 57,151]. GA-producing bacteria have been shown toincrease the drought resistance of various plants. GAs produced by P . putida H-2-3 increasedroot system growth and soybean yield, and induced regulation of stress hormones andantioxidants under drought conditions [ 218]. A study by Cohen et al. [ 219] showed thatA. lipoferum -producing GA and ABA improved the drought tolerance of maize plants.Other plant hormones such as JA and SA can protect plants from oxidative stressdamage. Several bacteria alter the amount of these hormones in the plant under stress [ 220].Similarly, JA are involved in increasing drought tolerance in plants, and it has been reportedthat exogenous application of JA increases the production of various antioxidants thatultimately contribute to drought reduction [1,220].4.6. 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic Acid (ACC) DeaminaseOne of the main strategies used by PGPR to mitigate ethylene stress is the hydrolysis of1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) by the enzyme ACC deaminase. Decreasedlevels of ACC lead to decreased endogenous ethylene levels and their detrimental effectson plants [ 26,221]. Research has shown that PGPR possessing ACC deaminase can cleavethe precursor ACC and hydrolyze it into ammonia and -ketobutyrate that are used ascarbon and nitrogen sources by bacteria [ 222,223]. ACC deaminase (EC 3.5.99.7) is apyridoxal 50-phosphate (PLP)-dependent multimeric enzyme found in the cytoplasm ofbacteria [ 224,225]. Plant drought tolerance has been linked to bacterial upregulation ofthe ACC deaminase (acdS) gene, which cleaves the ethylene precursor (ACC). In addition,putative ACC deaminase (acdS) genes have been widely found and described in variousbacterial genomes. Some bacteria, such as A. fragmenthaudii ,B. licheniformis, VariovoraxWater 2023 ,15, 418 23 of 35paradoxus, Pseudomonas spp., B. phytoﬁrmans , and Enterobacter spp. have been reported toincrease plant drought resistance through the production of this enzyme [225,226].Variovorax paradoxus RAA3, with its high capacity for ACC deaminase productionas well as N 2ﬁxation and siderophore production capabilities, signiﬁcantly improvedwheat plant growth and leaf nutrient concentrations, and activated antioxidant systemsand osmolyte accumulation [ 226]. Inoculation of wheat with Agrobacterium fabrum andB. amyloliquefaciens with ACC deaminase activity under water stress resulted in improvedmorphological parameters (lateral root area and length), increased nutrient uptake (N,P , K), photosynthetic rate, and photosynthetic pigments compared to the non-inoculatedplant [ 226]. A study by Dubey et al. [ 153] on inoculation of soybean with three endophyticstrains B. cereus AKAD A1-1, P . otitidis AKAD A1-2, and Pseudomonas sp. AKAD A1-3proved that these ACC deaminase-producing strains effectively alleviated drought stressthrough various mechanisms: by improving plant growth, membrane integrity, relativewater content, and accumulation of compatible solutes and osmolytes. Treatment of wheatseeds with ACC- and EPS-producing strains Pseudomonas sp. and S. marcescens improvedplant water status, chlorophyll, carotenoid content, and proline accumulation, conﬁrmingthe oxidative stress tolerance and drought resistance compared to untreated seeds [152].4.7. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)Research has shown that PGPR, in addition to root colonization, can effectively im-prove tolerance to abiotic stress without physical contact with host plants but rather throughthe release of chemicals called volatile organic compounds (VOCs). VOCs are secondarymetabolites produced by bacteria which act as signaling molecules facilitating short- andlong-distance transmission, as well as inter- and intra-organism communication. They arealso responsible for activating various signaling pathways in plants to trigger inducedsystemic resistance (ISR), which enhances plant defense mechanisms against abiotic andbiotic stress [ 227]. Bhattacharyya et al. [ 228] proved a signiﬁcant increase in fresh weight,root and shoot length, number of lateral leaves, and leaf area of A. thaliana plants exposedto VOCs produced by Proteus vulgaris JBLS2020. Exposure to the microbial volatile organicmolecule 2R,3R-butanediol produced by P . chlororaphis O6 promoted drought resistanceinA. thaliana seedlings through the induction of stomatal closure by reducing water losscompared to untreated plants [ 229]. Similarly, a study by Yasmin et al. [ 202] showed thatVOCs (dimethyl disulﬁde, 2,3-butanediol and 2-pentylfuran) from P . pseudoalcaligenes stim-ulate plant growth and induce drought tolerance in maize ( Zea mays L.). Plants treated withVOCs showed better plant growth and reduced MDA levels and electrolyte loss comparedto untreated plants.4.8. Modiﬁcation of the Plant Antioxidant Defense System by PGPRROS cause oxidative damage, thus affecting the metabolic processes of plant cellsand can cause cell death [ 230]. Several studies have proved that inoculation with PGPRhelp plants overcome oxidative stress of ROS by increasing the activities of enzymatic andnon-enzymatic antioxidant systems, which results in a decrease in MDA accumulation,electrolyte leakage, and H 2O2content, and increases the stability of membranes andphysiological processes of plants [66,151].According to Rachid et al. [ 174], inoculation of wheat with B. megaterium under water-limited conditions increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes SOD, APX, POD, CAT,and GR by 159, 87, 164, 166 and 60%, respectively, in comparison with non-inoculated plants.Inoculation reduced oxidative stresses by decreasing MDA content by 57% and electrolytesby 33%, and increasing the process of photosynthesis compared to non-inoculated plants.This conﬁrms that PGPR interfere with physiological processes and antioxidant defensesystems to improve drought tolerance.A study by He et al. [ 66] reported an increase in the activities of ROS scavengingenzymes including CAT, POD, and SOD in ryegrass ( Lolium perenne L.) plants inoculatedwith Bacillus sp. WM13-24 and Pseudomonas sp. M30- 35 under water shortage conditionsWater 2023 ,15, 418 24 of 35compared to non-inoculated plants. In addition, the decrease in MDA content, relativemembrane permeability (RMP), and H 2O2accumulation in inoculated plants allows usto conclude that there is a link between RMP inoculation, increased antioxidant enzymeactivities, and drought tolerance.Similarly, inoculation of common myrtle ( Myrtus communis L.) with P . ﬂuorescens andP . putida improved plant growth and biomass, chlorophyll and carotenoid content, andstimulation of enzymatic and non-enzymatic defenses (Phenol and ﬂavonoids) [137].4.9. Molecular Studies in Drought Stress Mitigation by PGPR/Alteration of Stress ResponsiveGene ExpressionMany plants exhibit PGPR-mediated stress resistance via the activation of numerousgenes in response to abiotic stressors. Several genomic expression studies using molecularbiology techniques have shown that stressed plants inoculated with PGPR exhibit differentgene expression proﬁles than those not inoculated [231,232].Li et al. [ 141] proved that treating drought-stressed wheat with a cell ﬁltrate of Strep-tomyces pactum Act12 improved plant growth and development. In addition, S. pactumAct 12 strain induced molecular responses by upregulating the expression levels of genesrelated to water deﬁcit resistance. Therefore, Act12 treatment allowed cell wall expansionby inducing EXPA2 and EXPA6 expression. Overexpression of EXPA2 was favorable forproline accumulation and ROS removal in wheat and reduced MDA content in plants.Act12 treatment signiﬁcantly increased the expression of the P5CS gene that regulatesproline content in plants during early water stress. Drought also induced increased ex-pression of the SnRK gene that encodes a protein kinase promoting leaf stomata closure,but also promotes root formation and enhances both osmotic adjustment capacity andphotosynthesis in plants [90].Bacterial colonization by PGPR strains can signiﬁcantly alter gene expression instressed plants. During drought stress, rice plants inoculated with the P . ﬂuorescens (Pf1)strain showed the activation of six genes: COX1 (regulates energy and carbohydratemetabolism), PKDP , AP2-EREBP , Hsp20, bZIP1, and COC1. Hsp20, bZIP1, and COC1are chaperones involved in the ABA signaling pathway; PKDP is a protein kinase; andAP2-EREBP is involved in developmental and stress defense pathways [231].Inoculation with Arthrobacter protophormiae SA3, Dietzia natronolimnaea STR1, and B.subtilis LDR2 confers drought and salinity tolerance in wheat plants by altering the ethylenesignaling pathway regulatory gene and transcription factor expression [13].Using sequencing Illumina, researchers found that inoculation of sugarcane ( Saccharumspp.) with Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus PAL5 under water stress circumstances activatedABA-dependent signaling genes [ 233]. Moreover, the use of Illumina HiSeq 2500 revealedthat the expression of genes of maize inoculated with P . putida FBKV2 under water-limitedconditions were modiﬁed. On the one hand, there was a downregulation of ET biosynthesis,ABA and auxin signaling, SOD, CAT, and POD in seedlings inoculated with P . putida FBKV2.On the other hand, genes involved in alanine and choline biosynthesis, heat shock proteins,and LEA proteins were induced to play a role in drought tolerance [ 234].Arabidopsis thalianaplants inoculated with GAP-P45 revealed a change in the expression patterns of genesassociated with polyamine biosynthesis (ADC, AIH, CPA, SPDS, SPMS, and SAMDC),thereby increasing the levels of polyamines in plants, and mitigating osmotic stress duringdrought [235].Woo et al. [ 190] also showed that inoculation of A. thaliana and B. campestris withB. subtilis GOT9 resulted in improved tolerance and survival under drought conditionsvia hyper-induction of various genes (RD29B, RAB18, RD20, and NCED3) in A. thalianaand (BrDREB1D (Bra028290), BrWRKY7 (Bra013732), BraCSD3 (Bra002100), and BraCSD3(Bra002133)) in B. campestris , responsible for the GOT9-induced enhancement of droughttolerance phenotypes.Quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR analysis showed differential expression of genesinvolved in transcription activation (DREB1A and NAC1), stress response (LEA and DHN),Water 2023 ,15, 418 25 of 35ROS scavenging (CAT, APX, GST), ethylene biosynthesis (ACO and ACS), salicylic acid(PR1), and jasmonate (MYC2) signaling in two chickpea plants exposed to drought stress.Inoculation with P . putida (RA) confers drought tolerance in chickpea by modulating thedifferential expression of stress-responsive genes [176].Similarly , Vaishnav and Choudhary [ 216], by using qRT-PCR, showed that under drought,upregulation of genes DREB/EREB encoding transcription factors, P5CS; GOLS for osmopro-tectants, and PIP; TIP for water transporters (Aquaporin) in soybean inoculated with P . simiaeAU resulted in improved drought tolerance compared to non-inoculated plants.In addition, inoculation of M. oleifera with B. pumilus increased leaf folate, tocopherol,and carotenoid levels by upregulating genes involved in -tocopherol methyltransferase(-TMT), lycopene cyclase (LBC), phytoene desaturase (PDS) and phytoene synthase (PSY),and dihydrofolate reductase thymidylate synthase (DHFR-TS) [236].Recently, by using qRT- PCR, Omara et al. [ 237] proved that inoculation of rice plantswith B. megaterium ,P . azotoformans , and Rhizobium sp. resulted in improved plant growthand drought tolerance by altering the expression of growth and stress response-relatedgenes (COX1, AP2-EREBP , GRAM, NRAMP6, NAM, GST, and DHN) and expansion genes(EXP1, EXP2, and EXP3). The expression of these genes was strongly induced in plantsinoculated with B. megaterium and was correlated with an improved growth status andtolerance under drought stress.5. Conclusions and PerspectivesDrought has been identiﬁed as the main constraint causing the decline in agriculturalproduction. Agriculture and water resources are currently going through an unprecedentedcritical period on an international scale. Drought is directly proportional to climate change.Drought stress is responsible for the alteration of plant growth but also of soil microbialinteractions. Thus, the reduction in agricultural production in the world is a serious threatto sustainable agriculture. Recent studies have proven the importance of using droughttolerant PGPRs to improve plant growth and drought tolerance. This review has attemptedto synthesize the variety of drought-adaptable microorganisms and the understanding ofthe mechanisms used by these bacteria to promote plant tolerance down to the molecularlevel. Future research should focus on identifying more advantageous bacterial strainsthat could be exploited to develop bio-inoculants. In addition, the molecular processesunderlying microorganism-induced abiotic stress tolerance in plants need to be investi-gated. Therefore, new molecular research on plant–microbe interactions is needed in thefuture to better understand the pathways used by rhizospheric microorganisms in inducedsystemic tolerance and rhizospheric engineering under drought stress. Thus, new researchshould focus on bio formulations, such as the encapsulation of strains to ensure the efﬁcacyof bio-inoculants under ﬁeld conditions. Improving drought tolerance, colonization, anddissemination of beneﬁcial bacteria is a strategy with the ultimate goal of food security.Understanding the interactions between plants, associated microorganisms, and the envi-ronment is a possible method to mitigate the negative consequences of climate change oncrop productivity and sustainability.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, L.B., H.C.-S. and A.S.; methodology, N.B., A.C.B., L.B.,H.C.-S., A.S. and O.B.; software, A.C.B., L.B.; H.C.-S., A.S. and O.B.; validation, L.B., H.C.-S. andA.S.; formal analysis, N.B., A.C.B., L.B., H.C.-S. and O.B.; investigation, A.C.B., L.B., H.C.-S., A.S. andO.B.; resources, A.C.B., L.B., H.C.-S. and A.S.; data curation, N.B., H.C.-S., A.S., A.C.B., L.L., F.N.A.,O.B. and L.B.; writing—original draft preparation, N.B., H.C.-S., A.S. and L.B.; writing—reviewand editing, N.B., H.C.-S., A.S., A.C.B., L.L., F.N.A., O.B. and L.B.; visualization, A.C.B. and L.B.;supervision, L.B., H.C.-S. and A.S.; project administration, L.B., H.C.-S. and A.S.; funding acquisition,L.B., H.C.-S. and A.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research received no external funding.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Water 2023 ,15, 418 26 of 35Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Goswami, M.; Suresh, D.E.K.A. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria—Alleviators of abiotic stresses in soil: A review. Pedosphere2020 ,30, 40–61. [CrossRef]2. Koza, N.A.; Adedayo, A.A.; Babalola, O.O.; Kappo, A.P . Microorganisms in Plant Growth and Development: Roles in AbioticStress Tolerance and Secondary Metabolites Secretion. Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1528. [CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Chandra, P .; Wunnava, A.; Verma, P .; Chandra, A.; Sharma, R.K. Strategies to mitigate the adverse effect of drought stress on cropplants—Inﬂuences of soil bacteria: A review. Pedosphere 2021 ,31, 496–509. [CrossRef]4. Kapoor, D.; Bhardwaj, S.; Landi, M.; Sharma, A.; Ramakrishnan, M.; Sharma, A. The impact of drought in plant metabolism: Howto exploit tolerance mechanisms to increase crop production. Appl. Sci. 2020 ,10, 5692. [CrossRef]5. Akhtar, N.; Ilyas, N.; Hayat, R.; Yasmin, H.; Noureldeen, A.; Ahmad, P . Synergistic effects of plant growth promoting rhizobacteriaand silicon dioxide nano-particles for amelioration of drought stress in wheat. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2021 ,166, 160–176.[CrossRef]6. Siddique, S.; Naveed, M.; Yaseen, M.; Shahbaz, M. Exploring Potential of Seed Endophytic Bacteria for Enhancing Drought StressResilience in Maize ( Zea mays L.).Sustainability 2022 ,14, 673. [CrossRef]7. Pequeno, D.N.; Hernandez-Ochoa, I.M.; Reynolds, M.; Sonder, K.; MoleroMilan, A.; Robertson, R.D.; Lopes, M.S.; Xiong, W.;Kropff, M.; Asseng, S. Climate impact and adaptation to heat and drought stress of regional and global wheat production. Environ.Res. Lett. 2021 ,16, 054070. [CrossRef]8. Bhandari, P .; Garg, N. Plant-Microbe Communication: New Facets for Sustainable Agriculture. In Microbial Interventions inAgriculture and Environment ; Singh, D., Gupta, V ., Prabha, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019. [CrossRef]9. Lalarukh, I.; Al-Dhumri, S.A.; Al-Ani, L.K.T.; Hussain, R.; Al Mutairi, K.A.; Mansoora, N.; Galal, T.M. A combined use ofrhizobacteria and moringa leaf extract mitigates the adverse effects of drought stress in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.). Front.Microbiol. 2022 ,1087 , 813415. [CrossRef]10. Ojuederie, O.B.; Olanrewaju, O.S.; Babalola, O.O. Plant growth promoting rhizobacterial mitigation of drought stress in cropplants: Implications for sustainable agriculture. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 712. [CrossRef]11. Azeem, M.; Haider, M.Z.; Javed, S.; Saleem, M.H.; Alatawi, A. Drought Stress Amelioration in Maize ( Zea mays L.) by InoculationofBacillus spp. Strains under Sterile Soil Conditions. Agriculture 2022 ,12, 50. [CrossRef]12. Ahluwalia, O.; Singh, P .C.; Bhatia, R. A review on drought stress in plants: Implications, mitigation and the role of plant growthpromoting rhizobacteria. Resour. Environ. Sustain. 2021 ,5, 100032. [CrossRef]13. Barnawal, D.; Singh, R.; Singh, R.P . Role of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria in drought tolerance: Regulating growthhormones and osmolytes. In PGPR Amelioration in Sustainable Agriculture ; Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, UK, 2019; pp. 107–128.[CrossRef]14. Kour, D.; Yadav, A.N. Bacterial Mitigation of Drought Stress in Plants: Current Perspectives and Future Challenges. Curr.Microbiol. 2022 ,79, 248. [CrossRef] [PubMed]15. Vurukonda, S.S.K.P .; Vardharajula, S.; Shrivastava, M.; SkZ, A. Enhancement of drought stress tolerance in crops by plant growthpromoting rhizobacteria. Microbiol. Res. 2016 ,184, 13–24. [CrossRef]16. Yang, L.I.U.; Hong, X.U.; Wen, X.X.; Liao, Y.C. Effect of polyamine on seed germination of wheat under drought stress is relatedto changes in hormones and carbohydrates. J. Integr. Agric. 2016 ,15, 2759–2774. [CrossRef]17. Zhu, G.; Gu, L.; Shi, Y.; Wang, Y. Plant hydraulic conductivity determines photosynthesis in rice under PEG-induced droughtstress. Pakistan J. Bot. 2021 ,53, 409–417. [CrossRef]18. Zhang, S.H.; Xu, X.F.; Sun, Y.M.; Zhang, J.L.; Li, C.Z. Inﬂuence of drought hardening on the resistance physiology of potatoseedlings under drought stress. J. Integr. Agr. 2018 ,17, 336–347. [CrossRef]19. Xu, C.; He, C.G.; Wang, Y.J.; Bi, Y.F.; Jiang, H. Effect of drought and heat stresses on photosynthesis, pigments, and xanthophyllcycle in alfalfa ( Medicago sativa L.).Photosynthetica 2020 ,58, 1226–1236. [CrossRef]20. Niu, J.; Zhang, S.; Liu, S.; Ma, H.; Chen, J.; Shen, Q.; Ge, C.; Zhang, X.; Pang, C.; Zhao, X. The compensation effects of physiologyand yield in cotton after drought stress. J. Plant Physiol. 2018 ,224, 30–48. [CrossRef] [PubMed]21. Naderi, S.; Fakheri, B.A.; Maali-Amiri, R.; Mahdinezhad, N. Tolerance responses in wheat landrace Bolani are related to enhancedmetabolic adjustments under drought stress. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,150, 244–253. [CrossRef]22. Wasaya, A.; Manzoor, S.; Yasir, T.A.; Sarwar, N.; Mubeen, K.; Ismail, I.A.; Raza, A.; Rehman, A.; Hossain, A.; EL Sabagh, A.Evaluation of Fourteen Bread Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) Genotypes by Observing Gas Exchange Parameters, Relative Waterand Chlorophyll Content, and Yield Attributes under Drought Stress. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 4799. [CrossRef]23. Mustafa, H.; Ilyas, N.; Akhtar, N.; Raja, N.I.; Zainab, T.; Shah, T.; Ahmad, A.; Ahmad, P . Biosynthesis and characterizationof titanium dioxide nanoparticles and its effects along with calcium phosphate on physicochemical attributes of wheat underdrought stress. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Safety 2021 ,223, 112519. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Water 2023 ,15, 418 27 of 3524. Khan, M.N.; Zhang, J.; Luo, T.; Liu, J.; Ni, F.; Rizwan, M.; Fahad, S.; Hu, L. Morpho-physiological and biochemical responses oftolerant and sensitive rapeseed cultivars to drought stress during early seedling growth stage. Acta Physiol. Plant 2019 ,41, 25.[CrossRef]25. Ghaffari, H.; Tadayon, M.R.; Nadeem, M.; Cheema, M.; Razmjoo, J. Proline-mediated changes in antioxidant enzymatic activitiesand the physiology of sugar beet under drought stress. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2019 ,41, 23. [CrossRef]26. Gowtham, H.G.; Singh, B.; Murali, M.; Shilpa, N.; Prasad, M.; Aiyaz, M.; Amruthesh, K.N.; Niranjana, S.R. Induction of droughttolerance in tomato upon the application of ACC deaminase producing plant growth promoting rhizobacterium Bacillus subtilisRhizo SF 48. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,234, 126422. [CrossRef]27. Li, L.; Gu, W.; Li, J.; Li, C.; Xie, T.; Qu, D.; Meng, Y.; Li, C.; Wei, S. Exogenously applied spermidine alleviates photosyntheticinhibition under drought stress in maize ( Zea mays L.) seedlings associated with changes in endogenous polyamines andphytohormones. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2018 ,129, 35–55. [CrossRef]28. Mukami, A.; Ngetich, A.; Mweu, C.; Oduor, R.O.; Muthangya, M.; Mbinda, W.M. Differential characterization of physiologicaland biochemical responses during drought stress in ﬁnger millet varieties. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants. 2019 ,25, 837–846. [CrossRef]29. Zia, R.; Nawaz, M.S.; Siddique, M.J.; Hakim, S.; Imran, A. Plant survival under drought stress: Implications, adaptive responses,and integrated rhizosphere management strategy for stress mitigation. Microbiol. Res. 2021 ,242, 126626. [CrossRef]30. Islam, M.M.; Kayesh, E.; Zaman, E.; Urmi, T.A.; Haque, M.M. Evaluation of rice ( Oryza sativa L.) genotypes for drought toleranceat germination and early seedling stage. Agriculturists 2018 ,16, 44–54. [CrossRef]31. Toscano, M.; Grandi, R.D.; Giampietro, D.; Grossi, E.; Facchin, V .; Comberiati, P .; Drago, L. Impact of delivery mode on thecolostrum microbiota composition. BMC Microbiol. 2017 ,17, 205. [CrossRef]32. Queiroz, M.S.; Oliveira, C.E.; Steiner, F.; Zuffo, A.M.; Zoz, T.; Vendruscolo, E.P .; Silva, M.V .; Mello, B.F.F.R.; Cabral, R.C.; Menis,F.T. Drought stresses on seed germination and early growth of maize and sorghum. J. Agr. Sci. 2019 ,11, 310–318. [CrossRef]33. Vandana, U.K.; Singha, B.; Gulzar, A.B.M.; Mazumder, P .B. Molecular mechanisms in plant growth promoting bacteria (PGPR) toresist environmental stress in plants. In Molecular Aspects of Plant Beneﬁcial Microbes in Agriculture ; Academic Press: Cambridge,MA, USA, 2020; pp. 221–233. [CrossRef]34. García-Caparr ós, P .; Romero, M.J.; Llanderal, A.; Cermeño, P .; Lao, M.T.; Segura, M.L. Effects of Drought Stress on Biomass,Essential Oil Content, Nutritional Parameters, and Costs of Production in Six Lamiaceae Species. Water 2019 ,11, 573. [CrossRef]35. Etesami, H.; Adl, S.M. Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) and Their Action Mechanisms in Availability of Nutrientsto Plants. In Phyto-Microbiome in Stress Regulation ; Environmental and Microbial Biotechnology, Kumar, M., Kumar, V ., Prasad, R.,Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2020. [CrossRef]36. Fattahi, M.; Mohammadkhani, A.; Shiran, B.; Baninasab, B.; Ravash, R.; Gogorcena, Y. Beneﬁcial effect of mycorrhiza on nutritionaluptake and oxidative balance in pistachio ( Pistacia spp.) rootstocks submitted to drought and salinity stress. Sci. Hortic. 2021 ,281, 109937. [CrossRef]37. Salehi-Lisar, S.Y.; Bakhshayeshan-Agdam, H. Drought Stress in Plants: Causes, Consequences, and Tolerance. In Drought StressTolerance in Plants ; Hossain, M., Wani, S., Bhattacharjee, S., Burritt, D., Tran, L.S., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016;Volume 1. [CrossRef]38. Farooq, M.; Wahid, A.; Kobayashi, N.; Fujita, D.; Basra, S.M.A. Plant Drought Stress: Effects, Mechanisms and Management. InSustainable Agriculture ; Lichtfouse, E., Navarrete, M., Debaeke, P ., V éronique, S., Alberola, C., Eds.; Springer: Dordrecht, TheNetherlands, 2009. [CrossRef]39. Ahanger, M.A.; Morad-Talab, N.; Abd-Allah, E.F.; Ahmad, P .; Hajiboland, R. Plant growth under drought stress: Signiﬁcance ofmineral nutrients. In Water Stress and Crop Plants: A Sustainable Approach ; Ahmad, P ., Ed.; Wiley Blackwell: Weinheim, Germany,2016; pp. 649–668. [CrossRef]40. Bashir, S.S.; Hussain, A.; Hussain, S.J.; Wani, O.A.; Zahid Nabi, S.; Dar, N.A.; Baloch, F.S.; Mansoor, S. Plant drought stresstolerance: Understanding its physiological, biochemical and molecular mechanisms. Biotechnol. Biotechnol. Equip. 2021 ,35, 1912–1925. [CrossRef]41. Tadayyon, A.; Nikneshan, P .; Pessarakli, M. Effects of drought stress on concentration of macro-and micro-nutrients in Castor(Ricinus communis L.) plant. J. Plant Nutr. 2018 ,41, 304–310. [CrossRef]42. Liu, C.; Duan, N.; Chen, X.; Li, H.; Zhao, X.; Duo, P .; Wang, J.; Li, Q. Metabolic Pathways Involved in the Drought Stress ResponseofNitraria tangutorum as Revealed by Transcriptome Analysis. Forests 2022 ,13, 509. [CrossRef]43. Hussain, H.A.; Hussain, S.; Khaliq, A.; Ashraf, U.; Anjum, S.A.; Men, S.; Wang, L. Chilling and drought stresses in crop plants:Implications, cross talk, and potential management opportunities. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 393. [CrossRef]44. Singh, A.D.; Kour, J.; Dhiman, S.; Khanna, K.; Kumar, P .; Kaur, R.; Kapoor, N.; Bhardwaj, R. Prospects of PGPR-MediatedAntioxidants and S and P Metabolism in Plants Under Drought Stress. In Antioxidants in Plant-Microbe Interaction ; Singh, H.B.,Vaishnav, A., Sayyed, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2021. [CrossRef]45. Chiappero, J.; del Rosario Cappellari, L.; Alderete, L.G.S.; Palermo, T.B.; Banchio, E. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteriaimprove the antioxidant status in Mentha piperita grown under drought stress leading to an enhancement of plant growth andtotal phenolic content. Ind. Crops Prod. 2019 ,139, 111553. [CrossRef]46. Yasmin, H.; Nosheen, A.; Naz, R.; Keyani, R.; Anjum, S. Regulatory Role of Rhizobacteria to Induce Drought and Salt StressTolerance in Plants. In Field Crops: Sustainable Management by PGPR ; Sustainable Development and Biodiversity, Maheshwari, D.,Dheeman, S., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; Volume 23. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 28 of 3547. Bhattacharya, A. Effect of Soil Water Deﬁcit on Growth and Development of Plants: A Review. In Soil Water Deﬁcit and PhysiologicalIssues in Plants ; Springer: Singapore, 2021. [CrossRef]48. Farooqi, Z.U.R.; Ayub, M.A.; Rehman, M.Z.; Sohail, M.I.; Usman, M.; Khalid, H.; Naz, K. Regulation of drought stress in plants.InPlant Life under Changing Environment ; Academic Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2020; pp. 77–104. [CrossRef]49. Jain, M.; Kataria, S.; Hirve, M.; Prajapati, R. Water Deﬁcit Stress Effects and Responses in Maize. In Plant Abiotic Stress Tolerance ;Hasanuzzaman, M., Hakeem, K., Nahar, K., Alharby, H., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2019. [CrossRef]50. Khatun, M.; Sarkar, S.; Era, F.M.; Islam, A.K.M.M.; Anwar, M.P .; Fahad, S.; Datta, R.; Islam, A.K.M.A. Drought Stress in GrainLegumes: Effects, Tolerance Mechanisms and Management. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 2374. [CrossRef]51. Raja, V .; Qadir, S.U.; Alyemeni, M.N.; Ahmad, P . Impact of drought and heat stress individually and in combination onphysio-biochemical parameters, antioxidant responses, and gene expression in Solanum lycopersicum .3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 208.[CrossRef]52. Iqbal, M.S.; Singh, A.K.; Ansari, M.I. Effect of Drought Stress on Crop Production. In New Frontiers in Stress Management forDurable Agriculture ; Rakshit, A., Singh, H., Singh, A., Singh, U., Fraceto, L., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2020. [CrossRef]53. El-Sabagh, A.E.; Islam, M.S.; Hossain, A.; Iqbal, M.A.; Mubeen, M.; Waleed, M.; Reginato, M.; Battaglia, M.; Ahmed, S.;Rehman, A.; et al. Phytohormones as growth regulators during abiotic stress tolerance in plants. Front. Agron. 2022 . [CrossRef]54. Zhang, C.; Shi, S.; Liu, Z.; Yang, F.; Yin, G. Drought tolerance in alfalfa ( Medicago sativa L.) varieties is associated with enhancedantioxidative protection and declined lipid peroxidation. J. Plant Physiol. 2019 ,232, 226–240. [CrossRef] [PubMed]55. Chhaya, Y.B.; Jogawat, A.; Gnanasekaran, P .; Kumari, P .; Lakra, N.; Lal, S.K.; Pawar, J.; Narayan, O.P . An overview of recentadvancement in phytohormones-mediated stress management and drought tolerance in crop plants. Plant Gene 2021 ,25, 100264.[CrossRef]56. Ullah, A.; Manghwar, H.; Shaban, M.; Khan, A.H.; Akbar, A.; Ali, U.; Ali, E.; Fahad, S. Phytohormones enhanced droughttolerance in plants: A coping strategy. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 2018 ,25, 33103–33118. [CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Ullah, A.; Nisar, M.; Ali, H.; Hazrat, A.; Hayat, K.; Keerio, A.A.; Ihsan, M.; Laiq, M.; Ullah, S.; Fahad, S.; et al. Drought toleranceimprovement in plants: An endophytic bacterial approach. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2019 ,103, 7385–7397. [CrossRef] [PubMed]58. Jiang, K.; Asami, T. Chemical regulators of plant hormones and their applications in basic research and agriculture. Biosci.Biotechnol. Biochem. 2018 ,82, 1265–1300. [CrossRef] [PubMed]59. Nolan, T.M.; Vukašinovi´ c, N.; Liu, D.; Russinova, E.; Yin, Y. Brassinosteroids: Multidimensional regulators of plant growth,development, and stress responses. The Plant Cell 2020 ,32, 295–318. [CrossRef] [PubMed]60. Ghafoor, R.; Akram, N.A.; Rashid, M.; Ashraf, M.; Iqbal, M.; Lixin, Z. Exogenously applied proline induced changes in keyanatomical features and physio-biochemical attributes in water stressed oat (Avena sativa L.) plants. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants2019 ,25, 1121–1135. [CrossRef]61. Jamshidi Goharrizi, K.; Moosavi, S.S.; Amirmahani, F.; Salehi, F.; Nazari, M. Assessment of changes in growth traits, oxidativestress parameters, and enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant defense mechanisms in Lepidium draba plant under osmoticstress induced by polyethylene glycol. Protoplasma 2020 ,257, 459–473. [CrossRef]62. El-Beltagi, H.S.; Shah, S.; Ullah, S.; Sulaiman; Mansour, A.T.; Shalaby, T.A. Impacts of Ascorbic Acid and Alpha-Tocopherol onChickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) Grown in Water Deﬁcit Regimes for Sustainable Production. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 8861. [CrossRef]63. Laxa, M.; Liebthal, M.; Telman, W.; Chibani, K.; Dietz, K.-J. The Role of the Plant Antioxidant System in Drought Tolerance.Antioxidants 2019 ,8, 94. [CrossRef]64. Ansari, F.A.; Jabeen, M.; Ahmad, I. Pseudomonas azotoformans FAP5, a novel bioﬁlm-forming PGPR strain, alleviates drought stressin wheat plant. Int. J. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2021 ,18, 3855–3870. [CrossRef]65. Kirova, E.; Pecheva, D.; Simova-Stoilova, L. Drought response in winter wheat: Protection from oxidative stress and mutagenesiseffect. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,43, 8. [CrossRef]66. He, W.; Yan, K.; Zhang, Y.; Bian, L.; Mei, H.; Han, G. Contrasting photosynthesis, photoinhibition and oxidative damage inhoneysuckle ( Lonicera japonica Thunb.) under iso-osmotic salt and drought stresses. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,182, 104313.[CrossRef]67. Zenda, T.; Liu, S.; Duan, H. Adapting cereal grain crops to drought stress: 2020 and beyond. In Abiotic Stress Plants ; IntechOpen:London, UK, 2020; pp. 1–27.68. Carlson, R.; Tugizimana, F.; Steenkamp, P .A.; Dubery, I.A.; Hassen, A.I.; Labuschagne, N. Rhizobacteria-induced systemictolerance against drought stress in, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. Microbiol. Res. 2019 ,232, 126388. [CrossRef] [PubMed]69. Ilyas, N.; Mumtaz, K.; Akhtar, N.; Yasmin, H.; Sayyed, R.Z.; Khan, W.; Enshasy, H.A.E.; Dailin, D.J.; Elsayed, E.A.; Ali, Z.Exopolysaccharides Producing Bacteria for the Amelioration of Drought Stress in Wheat. Sustainability 2020 ,12, 8876. [CrossRef]70. Fang, Y.; Xiong, L. General mechanisms of drought response and their application in drought resistance improvement in plants.Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 2015 ,72, 673–689. [CrossRef] [PubMed]71. Hazman, M.; Brown, K.M. Progressive drought alters architectural and anatomical traits of rice roots. Rice 2018 ,11, 62. [CrossRef]72. Chun, H.C.; Sanghun, L.E.E.; Choi, Y.D.; Gong, D.H.; Jung, K.Y. Effects of drought stress on root morphology and spatialdistribution of soybean and adzuki bean. J. Integr. Agr. 2021 ,20, 2639–2651. [CrossRef]73. Lamaoui, M.; Jemo, M.; Datla, R.; Bekkaoui, F. Heat and drought stresses in crops and approaches for their mitigation. Front.Chem. 2018 ,6, 26. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 29 of 3574. Dutta, P .; Chakraborti, S.; Chaudhuri, K.M.; Mondal, S. Physiological Responses and Resilience of Plants to Climate Change. InNew Frontiers in Stress Management for Durable Agriculture ; Rakshit, A., Singh, H., Singh, A., Singh, U., Fraceto, L., Eds.; Springer:Singapore, 2020. [CrossRef]75. Men, Y.; Wang, D.; Li, B.; Su, Y.; Chen, G. Effects of drought stress on the antioxidant system, osmolytes and secondary metabolitesofSaposhnikovia divaricata seedlings. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2018 ,40, 191. [CrossRef]76. Farooq, M.; Almamari, S.A.D.; Rehman, A.; Al-Busaidi, W.M.; Wahid, A.; Al-Ghamdi, S.S. Morphological, physiological andbiochemical aspects of zinc seed priming-induced drought tolerance in faba bean. Sci. Hortic. 2021 ,281, 109894. [CrossRef]77. Li, B.; Feng, Y.; Zong, Y.; Zhang, D.; Hao, X.; Li, P . Elevated CO 2-induced changes in photosynthesis, antioxidant enzymes andsignal transduction enzyme of soybean under drought stress. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,154, 105–114. [CrossRef] [PubMed]78. Alam, M.M.; Nahar, K.; Hasanuzzaman, M.; Fujita, M. Exogenous jasmonic acid modulates the physiology, antioxidant defenseand glyoxalase systems in imparting drought stress tolerance in different Brassica species. Plant Biotechnol. Rep. 2014 ,8, 279–293.[CrossRef]79. Singh, M.; Rani, S.; Malhotra, N.; Katna, G.; Sarker, A. Transgressive segregations for agronomic improvement using interspeciﬁccrosses between C. arietinum L. x C. reticulatum Ladiz. and C. arietinum L. x C. echinospermum Davis species. PLoS ONE 2018 ,13, e0203082. [CrossRef]80. Javadipour, Z.; Balouchi, H.; Movahhedi Dehnavi, M.; Yadavi, A. Physiological Responses of Bread Wheat ( Triticum aestivum )Cultivars to Drought Stress and Exogenous Methyl Jasmonate. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2021 ,41, 3433–3448. [CrossRef]81. Zamani, S.; Naderi, M.R.; Soleymani, A.; Nasiri, B.M. Sunﬂower ( Helianthus annuus L.) biochemical properties and seedcomponents affected by potassium fertilization under drought conditions. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Safety 2020 ,190, 110017. [CrossRef]82. Anjum, S.A.; Ashraf, U.; Tanveer, M.; Khan, I.; Hussain, S.; Shahzad, B.; Zohaib, A.; Abbas, F.; Saleem, M.F.; Ali, I.; et al. Droughtinduced changes in growth, osmolyte accumulation and antioxidant metabolism of three maize hybrids. Front Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 69. [CrossRef]83. Mäkelä, P .S.A.; Jokinen, K.; Himanen, K. Roles of Endogenous Glycinebetaine in Plant Abiotic Stress Responses. In Osmoprotectant-Mediated Abiotic Stress Tolerance in Plants ; Hossain, M., Kumar, V ., Burritt, D., Fujita, M., Mäkelä, P ., Eds.; Springer: Cham,Switzerland; Geneva, Switzerland, 2019. [CrossRef]84. Yang, X.; Lu, M.; Wang, Y.; Wang, Y.; Liu, Z.; Chen, S. Response Mechanism of Plants to Drought Stress. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 50.[CrossRef]85. Singh, A.; Kumar, A.; Yadav, S.; Singh, I.K. Reactive oxygen species-mediated signaling during abiotic stress. Plant Gene 2019 ,18, 100173. [CrossRef]86. Annunziata, M.G.; Ciarmiello, L.F.; Woodrow, P .; Dell’Aversana, E.; Carillo, P . Spatial and temporal proﬁle of glycine betaineaccumulation in plants under abiotic stresses. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 230. [CrossRef]87. Bai, X.; Dai, L.; Sun, H.; Chen, M.; Sun, Y. Effects of moderate soil salinity on osmotic adjustment and energy strategy in soybeanunder drought stress. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2019 ,139, 307–313. [CrossRef] [PubMed]88. Barnawal, D.; Bharti, N.; Pandey, S.S.; Pandey, A.; Chanotiya, C.S.; Kalra, A. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria enhancewheat salt and drought stress tolerance by altering endogenous phytohormone levels and TaCTR1/TaDREB2 expression. Physiol.Plant. 2017 ,161, 502–514. [CrossRef] [PubMed]89. Abdelaal, K.; AlKahtani, M.; Attia, K.; Hafez, Y.; Kir ály, L.; Künstler, A. The Role of Plant Growth-Promoting Bacteria inAlleviating the Adverse Effects of Drought on Plants. Biology 2021 ,10, 520. [CrossRef] [PubMed]90. Zhang, Q.; Yuan, W.; Wang, Q.; Cao, Y.; Xu, F.; Dodd, I.C.; Xu, W. ABA regulation of root growth during soil drying and recoverycan involve auxin response. Plant Cell Environ. 2022 ,45, 871–883. [CrossRef]91. Yadav, R.; Juneja, S.; Kumar, S. Cross priming with drought improves heat-tolerance in chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) by stimulatingsmall heat shock proteins and antioxidative defense. Environ. Sustain. 2021 ,4, 171–182. [CrossRef]92. Daszkowska-Golec, A. The Role of Abscisic Acid in Drought Stress: How ABA Helps Plants to Cope with Drought Stress. InDrought Stress Tolerance in Plant ; Hossain, M., Wani, S., Bhattacharjee, S., Burritt, D., Tran, L.S., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland;Geneva, Switzerland, 2016; Volume 2. [CrossRef]93. Ghosh, D.; Gupta, A.; Mohapatra, S. Dynamics of endogenous hormone regulation in plants by phytohormone secretingrhizobacteria under water-stress. Symbiosis 2019 ,77, 265–278. [CrossRef]94. Iqbal, S.; Wang, X.; Mubeen, I.; Kamran, M.; Kanwal, I.; D íaz, G.A.; Abbas, A.; Parveen, A.; Atiq, M.N.; Alshaya, H.; et al.Phytohormones trigger drought tolerance in crop plants: Outlook and future perspectives. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,3378 , 799318.[CrossRef]95. Hai, N.N.; Chuong, N.N.; Tu, N.H.C.; Kisiala, A.; Hoang, X.L.T.; Thao, N.P . Role and Regulation of Cytokinins in Plant Responseto Drought Stress. Plants 2020 ,9, 422. [CrossRef]96. Pavlovi´ c, I.; Petˇ r ík, I.; Tarkowsk á, D.; Lepeduš, H.; Vujˇ ci´ c Bok, V .; Radi´ c Brkanac, S.; Nov ák, O.; Salopek-Sondi, B. Correlationsbetween Phytohormones and Drought Tolerance in Selected Brassica Crops: Chinese Cabbage, White Cabbage and Kale. Int. J.Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 2866. [CrossRef]97. Hasanuzzaman, M.; Bhuyan, M.H.M.B.; Zulﬁqar, F.; Raza, A.; Mohsin, S.M.; Mahmud, J.A.; Fujita, M.; Fotopoulos, V . ReactiveOxygen Species and Antioxidant Defense in Plants under Abiotic Stress: Revisiting the Crucial Role of a Universal DefenseRegulator. Antioxidants 2020 ,9, 681. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 30 of 3598. Khedia, J.; Agarwal, P .; Agarwal, P .K. Deciphering hydrogen peroxide-induced signaling towards stress tolerance in plants. 3Biotech 2019 ,9, 395. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Kumar, S.; Sachdeva, S.; Bhat, K.V .; Vats, S. Plant Responses to Drought Stress: Physiological, Biochemical and Molecular Basis. InBiotic and Abiotic Stress Tolerance in Plants ; Vats, S., Ed.; Springer: Singapore, 2018. [CrossRef]100. Abdelaal, K.A.A.; Attia, K.A.; Alamery, S.F.; El-Afry, M.M.; Ghazy, A.I.; Tantawy, D.S.; Al-Doss, A.A.; El-Shawy, E.-S.E.; Abu-Elsaoud, A.M.; Hafez, Y.M. Exogenous Application of Proline and Salicylic Acid can Mitigate the Injurious Impacts of DroughtStress on Barley Plants Associated with Physiological and Histological Characters. Sustainability 2020 ,12, 1736. [CrossRef]101. Vukovi´ c, R.; ˇCamagajevac, I.Š.; Vukovi´ c, A.; Šuni´ c, K.; Begovi´ c, L.; Mlinari´ c, S.; Sekuli´ c, R.; Sabo, N.; Špani´ c, V . Physiological,Biochemical and Molecular Response of Different Winter Wheat Varieties under Drought Stress at Germination and SeedlingGrowth Stage. Antioxidants 2022 ,11, 693. [CrossRef]102. Rajput, V .D.; Harish; Singh, R.K.; Verma, K.K.; Sharma, L.; Quiroz-Figueroa, F.R.; Meena, M.; Gour, V .S.; Minkina, T.; Sushkova, S.;et al. Recent Developments in Enzymatic Antioxidant Defense Mechanism in Plants with Special Reference to Abiotic Stress.Biology 2021 ,10, 267. [CrossRef] [PubMed]103. Gupta, A.; Mishra, R.; Rai, S.; Bano, A.; Pathak, N.; Fujita, M.; Kumar, M.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Mechanistic Insights of PlantGrowth Promoting Bacteria Mediated Drought and Salt Stress Tolerance in Plants for Sustainable Agriculture. Int. J. Mol. Sci.2022 ,23, 3741. [CrossRef]104. Batth, R.; Singh, K.; Kumari, S.; Mustaﬁz, A. Transcript proﬁling reveals the presence of abiotic stress and developmental stagespeciﬁc ascorbate oxidase genes in plants. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 198. [CrossRef] [PubMed]105. Wang, X.; Liu, H.; Yu, F.; Hu, B.; Jia, Y.; Sha, H.; Zhao, H. Differential activity of the antioxidant defense system and alterations inthe accumulation of osmolyte and reactive oxygen species under drought stress and recovery in rice ( Oryza sativa L.) tillering. Sci.Rep. 2019 ,9, 1–11. [CrossRef]106. Shaﬁq, S.; Akram, N.A.; Ashraf, M.; Garc ía-Caparr ós, P .; Ali, O.M.; Latef, A.A.H.A. Inﬂuence of Glycine Betaine (Natural andSynthetic) on Growth, Metabolism and Yield Production of Drought-Stressed Maize ( Zea mays L.) Plants. Plants 2021 ,10, 2540.[CrossRef]107. Nawaz, M.; Wang, X.; Saleem, M.H.; Khan, M.H.U.; Afzal, J.; Fiaz, S.; Ali, S.; Ishaq, H.; Khan, A.H.; Rehman, N.; et al. DecipheringPlantago ovata Forsk Leaf Extract Mediated Distinct Germination, Growth and Physio-Biochemical Improvements under WaterStress in Maize ( Zea mays L.) at Early Growth Stage. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 1404. [CrossRef]108. Shah, T.M.; Imran, M.; Atta, B.M.; Ashraf, M.Y.; Hameed, A.; Waqar, I.; Shaﬁq, M.; Hussain, K.; Naveed, M.; Aslam, M.;et al. Selection and screening of drought tolerant high yielding chickpea genotypes based on physio-biochemical indices andmulti-environmental yield trials. BMC Plant Biol. 2020 ,20, 171. [CrossRef]109. Marwein, R.; Debbarma, J.; Sarki, Y.N.; Baruah, I.; Saikia, B.; Boruah, H.D.; Velmurgan, N.; Chikkaputtaiah, C. Geneticengineering/Genome editing approaches to modulate signaling processes in abiotic stress tolerance. In Plant signaling molecules ;Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, UK, 2019; pp. 63–82. [CrossRef]110. Arora, S.; Jha, P .N. Impact of Plant-Associated Microbial Communities on Host Plants Under Abiotic Stresses. In MicrobialInterventions in Agriculture and Environment ; Singh, D., Gupta, V ., Prabha, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019. [CrossRef]111. Mukarram, M.; Choudhary, S.; Kurjak, D.; Petek, A.; Khan, M.M.A. Drought: Sensing, signaling, effects and tolerance in higherplants. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 1291–1300. [CrossRef] [PubMed]112. Joshi, R.; Wani, S.H.; Singh, B.; Bohra, A.; Dar, Z.A.; Lone, A.A.; Singla-Pareek, S.L. Transcription factors and plants response todrought stress: Current understanding and future directions. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 1029. [CrossRef] [PubMed]113. Ramegowda, V .; Da Costa, M.V .J.; Harihar, S.; Karaba, N.N.; Sreeman, S.M. Abiotic and biotic stress interactions in plants: Across-tolerance perspective. In Priming-Mediated Stress and Cross-Stress Tolerance in Crop Plants ; Academic Press: Cambridge, MA,USA, 2020; pp. 267–302. [CrossRef]114. Priya, M.; Dhanker, O.P .; Siddique, K.H.M.; HanumanthaRao, B.; Nair, R.M.; Pandey, S.; Singh, S.; Varshney, R.K.; Prasad, P .V .V .;Nayyar, H. Drought and heat stress-related proteins: An update about their functional relevance in imparting stress tolerance inagricultural crops. Theor. Appl. Genet. 2019 ,132, 1607–1638. [CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Li, N.; Zhang, S.; Liang, Y.; Qi, Y.; Chen, J.; Zhu, W.; Zhang, L. Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of drought stress-responsive late embryogenesis abundant proteins in the seedling leaves of two wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) genotypes. J. Proteom.2018 ,172, 122–142. [CrossRef] [PubMed]116. Razi, K.; Muneer, S. Drought stress-induced physiological mechanisms, signaling pathways and molecular response of chloro-plasts in common vegetable crops. Crit. Rev. Biotechnol. 2021 ,41, 669–691. [CrossRef] [PubMed]117. Riyazuddin, R.; Nisha, N.; Singh, K.; Verma, R.; Gupta, R. Involvement of dehydrin proteins in mitigating the negative effects ofdrought stress in plants. Plant Cell Rep. 2022 ,41, 519–533. [CrossRef]118. Abdel-Ghany, S.E.; Ullah, F.; Ben-Hur, A.; Reddy, A.S.N. Transcriptome Analysis of Drought-Resistant and Drought-SensitiveSorghum ( Sorghum bicolor ) Genotypes in Response to PEG-Induced Drought Stress. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 772. [CrossRef]119. Magwanga, R.O.; Lu, P .; Kirungu, J.N.; Lu, H.; Wang, X.; Cai, X.; Zhou, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Salih, H.; Wang, K.; et al. Characterizationof the late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins family and their role in drought stress tolerance in upland cotton. BMC Genet.2018 ,19, 1–31. [CrossRef]120. Cao, J.; Li, X. Identiﬁcation and phylogenetic analysis of late embryogenesis abundant proteins family in tomato ( Solanumlycopersicum ).Planta 2015 ,241, 757–772. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 31 of 35121. Shafqat, W.; Jaskani, M.J.; Maqbool, R.; Chattha, W.S.; Ali, Z.; Naqvi, S.A.; Haider, M.S.; Khan, I.A.; Vincent, C.I. Heat shockprotein and aquaporin expression enhance water conserving behavior of citrus under water deﬁcits and high temperatureconditions. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,181, 104270. [CrossRef]122. Afzal, Z.; Howton, T.C.; Sun, Y.; Mukhtar, M.S. The Roles of Aquaporins in Plant Stress Responses. J. Dev. Biol. 2016 ,4, 9.[CrossRef] [PubMed]123. Chávez-Arias, C.C.; Ligarreto-Moreno, G.A.; Ram írez-Godoy, A.; Restrepo-D íaz, H. Maize responses challenged by drought,elevated daytime temperature and arthropod herbivory stresses: A physiological, biochemical and molecular view. Front. PlantSci.2021 ,1512 , 702841. [CrossRef] [PubMed]124. Shivaraj, S.M.; Sharma, Y.; Chaudhary, J.; Rajora, N.; Sharma, S.; Thakral, V .; Ram, H.; Sonah, H.; Singh-Pareek, S.L.; Sharma, T.R.;et al. Dynamic role of aquaporin transport sys-tem under drought stress in plants. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,184, 104367. [CrossRef]125. Kumar, A.; Singh, V .K.; Tripathi, V .; Singh, P .P .; Singh, A.K. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR): Perspective inagriculture under biotic and abiotic stress. In Crop Improvement through Microbial Biotechnology ; Elsevier: Amsterdam, TheNetherlands, 2018; pp. 333–342. [CrossRef]126. Bi, H.; Miao, J.; He, J.; Chen, Q.; Qian, J.; Li, H.; Xu, Y.; Ma, D.; Zhao, Y.; Tian, X.; et al. Characterization of the Wheat Heat ShockFactor TaHsfA2e-5D Conferring Heat and Drought Tolerance in Arabidopsis. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2022 ,23, 2784. [CrossRef]127. Piveta, L.B.; Roma-Burgos, N.; Noldin, J.A.; Viana, V .E.; Oliveira, C.d.; Lamego, F.P .; Avila, L.A.d. Molecular and PhysiologicalResponses of Rice and Weedy Rice to Heat and Drought Stress. Agriculture 2021 ,11, 9. [CrossRef]128. Khan, Z.; Shahwar, D. Role of Heat Shock Proteins (HSPs) and Heat Stress Tolerance in Crop Plants. In Sustainable Agriculturein the Era of Climate Change ; Roychowdhury, R., Choudhury, S., Hasanuzzaman, M., Srivastava, S., Eds.; Springer: Cham,Switzerland, 2020. [CrossRef]129. Kumar, R.R.; Goswami, S.; Singh, K.; Dubey, K.; Rai, G.K.; Singh, B.; Singh, S.; Grover, M.; Mishra, D.; Kumar, S.; et al.Characterization of novel heat-responsive transcription factor (TaHSFA6e) gene involved in regulation of heat shock proteins(HSPs)—A key member of heat stress-tolerance network of wheat. J. Biotechnol. 2018 ,279, 1–12. [CrossRef] [PubMed]130. Liu, J.; Wang, R.; Liu, W.; Zhang, H.; Guo, Y.; Wen, R. Genome-Wide Characterization of Heat-Shock Protein 70s from Chenopodiumquinoa and Expression Analyses of Cqhsp70s in Response to Drought Stress. Genes 2018 ,9, 35. [CrossRef]131. Ngumbi, E.; Kloepper, J. Bacterial-mediated drought tolerance: Current and future prospects. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2016 ,105, 109–125.[CrossRef]132. Cherif-Silini, H.; Thissera, B.; Chenari Bouket, A.; Saadaoui, N.; Silini, A.; Eshelli, M.; Alenezi, F.N.; Vallat, A.; Luptakova, L. ;Yahiaoui, B. Durum Wheat Stress Tolerance Induced by Endophyte Pantoea agglomerans with Genes Contributing to PlantFunc-tions and Secondary Metabolite Arsenal. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 3989. [CrossRef]133. Cherif-Silini, H.; Silini, A.; Chenari Bouket, A.; Alenezi, F.N.; Luptakova, L.; Bouremani, N.; Nowakowska, J.N.; Oszako, T.;Belbahri, L. Tailoring Next Generation Plant Growth Promoting Microorganisms as Versatile Tools beyond Soil Desalinization:ARoad Map towards Field Application. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 4422. [CrossRef]134. Kerbab, S.; Silini, A.; Chenari Bouket, A.; Cherif-Silini, H.; Eshelli, M.; El Houda Rabhi, N.; Belbahri, L. Mitigation of NaCl StressinWheat by Rhizosphere Engineering Using Salt Habitat Adapte d PGPR Halotolerant Bacteria. Appl. Sci. 2021 ,11, 1034. [CrossRef]135. Ghosh, D.; Gupta, A.; Mohapatra, S. A comparative analysis of exopolysaccharide and phytohormone secretions by four drought-tolerant rhizobacterial strains and their impact on osmotic-stress mitigation in Arabidopsis thaliana .World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol.2019 ,35, 90. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Wang, D.-C.; Jiang, C.-H.; Zhang, L.-N.; Chen, L.; Zhang, X.-Y.; Guo, J.-H. Bioﬁlms Positively Contribute to Bacillus amyloliquefaciens54-induced Drought Tolerance in Tomato Plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 6271. [CrossRef] [PubMed]137. Azizi, S.; Kouchaksaraei, M.T.; Hadian, J.; Abad, A.R.F.N.; Sanavi, S.A.M.M.; Ammer, C.; Bader, M.K.F. Dual inoculations ofarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria boost drought resistance and essential oil yield ofcommon myrtle. For. Ecol. Manag. 2021 ,497, 119478. [CrossRef]138. Danish, S.; Zafar-ul-Hye, M.; Fahad, S.; Saud, S.; Brtnicky, M.; Hammerschmiedt, T.; Datta, R. Drought Stress Alleviation byACC Deaminase Producing Achromobacter xylosoxidans and Enterobacter cloacae , with and without Timber Waste Biochar in Maize.Sustainability 2020 ,12, 6286. [CrossRef]139. Agami, R.A.; Ghramh, H.A.; Hasheem, M. Seed inoculation with Azospirillum lipoferum alleviates the adverse effects of droughtstress on wheat plants. J. Appl. Bot. Food Qual. 2017 ,90, 165–173. [CrossRef]140. Mariotti, L.; Scartazza, A.; Curadi, M.; Picciarelli, P .; Toffanin, A. Azospirillum baldaniorum Sp245 Induces Physiological Responsesto Alleviate the Adverse Effects of Drought Stress in Purple Basil. Plants 2021 ,10, 1141. [CrossRef]141. Li, H.; Guo, Q.; Jing, Y.; Liu, Z.; Zheng, Z.; Sun, Y.; Xue, Q.; Lai, H. Application of Streptomyces pactum Act12 enhances droughtresistance in wheat. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2020 ,39, 122–132. [CrossRef]142. He, A.; Niu, S.; Yang, D.; Ren, W.; Zhao, L.; Sun, Y.; Meng, L.; Zhao, Q.; Pare, P .W.; Zhang, J. Two PGPR strains from therhizosphere of Haloxylon ammodendron promoted growth and enhanced drought tolerance of ryegrass. Plant Physiol. Biochem.2021 ,161, 74–85. [CrossRef]143. Sood, G.; Kaushal, R.; Sharma, M. Signiﬁcance of inoculation with Bacillus subtilis to alleviate drought stress in wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.).Vegetos 2020 ,33, 782–792. [CrossRef]144. Joshi, B.; Chaudhary, A.; Singh, H.; Kumar, P .A. Prospective evaluation of individual and consortia plant growth promotingrhizobacteria for drought stress amelioration in rice ( Oryza sativa L.).Plant Soil. 2020 ,457, 225–240. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 32 of 35145. Saleem, M.; Nawaz, F.; Hussain, M.B.; Ikram, R.M. Comparative effects of individual and consortia Plant Growth PromotingBacteria on physiological and enzymatic mechanisms to confer drought tolerance in maize ( Zea mays L.).J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr.2021 ,21, 3461–3476. [CrossRef]146. Khan, N.; Zandi, P .; Ali, S.; Mehmood, A.; Adnan Shahid, M.; Yang, J. Impact of salicylic acid and PGPR on the drought toleranceand phytoremediation potential of Helianthus annus .Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 2507. [CrossRef] [PubMed]147. Batool, T.; Ali, S.; Seleiman, M.F.; Naveed, N.H.; Ali, A.; Ahmed, K. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria alleviates drought stressin potato in response to suppressive oxidative stress and antioxidant enzymes activities. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 16975. [CrossRef][PubMed]148. Zarei, T.; Moradi, A.; Kazemeini, S.A.; Akhgar, A.; Rahi, A.A. The role of ACC deaminase producing bacteria in improving sweetcorn ( Zea mays L. var saccharata) productivity under limited availability of irrigation water. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 20361. [CrossRef][PubMed]149. Chen, C.; Xin, K.; Liu, H.; Cheng, J.; Shen, X.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, L. Pantoea alhagi , a novel endophytic bacterium with ability toimprove growth and drought tolerance in wheat. Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 41564. [CrossRef] [PubMed]150. Astorga-El ó, M.; Gonzalez, S.; Acuña, J.J.; Sadowsky, M.J.; Jorquera, M.A. Rhizobacteria from ‘ﬂowering desert’ events contributeto the mitigation of water scarcity stress during tomato seedling germination and growth. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 13745. [CrossRef]151. Chandra, D.; Srivastava, R.; Glick, B.R.; Sharma, A.K. Rhizobacteria producing ACC deaminase mitigate water-stress response inﬁnger millet ( Eleusine coracana (L.) Gaertn.). 3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 65. [CrossRef]152. Khan, A.; Singh, A.V . Multifarious effect of ACC deaminase and EPS producing Pseudomonas sp. and Serratia marcescens toaugment drought stress tolerance and nutrient status of wheat. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2021 ,37, 198. [CrossRef]153. Dubey, A.; Saiyam, D.; Kumar, A.; Hashem, A.; Abd_Allah, E.F.; Khan, M.L. Bacterial Root Endophytes: Characterization of TheirCompetence and Plant Growth Promotion in Soybean ( Glycine max (L.) Merr.) under Drought Stress. Int. J. Environ. Res. PublicHealth 2021 ,18, 931. [CrossRef]154. Saikia, J.; Sarma, R.K.; Dhandia, R.; Yadav, A.; Bharali, R.; Gupta, V .K.; Saikia, R. Alleviation of drought stress in pulse crops withACC deaminase producing rhizobacteria isolated from acidic soil of Northeast India. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 3560. [CrossRef] [PubMed]155. Zhang, M.; Yang, L.; Hao, R.; Bai, X.; Wang, Y.; Yu, X. Drought-tolerant plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria isolated from jujube(Ziziphus jujuba ) and their potential to enhance drought tolerance. Plant Soil. 2020 ,452, 423–440. [CrossRef]156. Murali, M.; Gowtham, H.G.; Singh, S.B.; Shilpa, N.; Aiyaz, M.; Niranjana, S.R.; Amruthesh, K.N.a. Bio-prospecting of ACCdeaminase producing Rhizobacteria towards sustainable agriculture: A special emphasis on abiotic stress in plants. Appl. SoilEcol. 2021 ,168, 104142. [CrossRef]157. Yasmin, H.; Bano, A.; Wilson, N.L.; Nosheen, A.; Naz, R.; Hassan, M.N.; Illyas, N.; Saleem, M.; Noureldeen, A.; Ahmad, P .; et al.Drought-tolerant Pseudomonas sp. showed differential expression of stress-responsive genes and induced drought tolerance inArabidopsis thaliana .Physiol. Plant. 2022 ,174, e13497. [CrossRef]158. Puthiyottil, P .; Akkara, Y. Pre-treatment with Bacillus subtilis mitigates drought induced photo-oxidative damages in okra bymodulating antioxidant system and photochemical activity. Physiol. Mol. Biol. Plants. 2021 ,27, 945–957. [CrossRef]159. Narayanasamy, S.; Thangappan, S.; Uthandi, S. Plant growth-promoting Bacillus sp. cahoots moisture stress alleviation in ricegenotypes by triggering antioxidant defense system. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,239, 126518. [CrossRef]160. Singh, B.; Gowtham, H.G.; Niranjana, S.R. ACC deaminase producing PGPR invoke changes in antioxidant systems to minimizethe adverse effects of salt in sunﬂower. RJLBPCS 2019 ,5, 1. [CrossRef]161. Gontia-Mishra, I.; Sapre, S.; Sharma, A.; Tiwari, S. Amelioration of drought tolerance in wheat by the interaction of plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria. Plant Biol. 2016 ,18, 992–1000. [CrossRef]162. Chukwuneme, C.F.; Babalola, O.O.; Kutu, F.R.; Ojuederie, O.B. Characterization of Actinomycetes Isolates for Plant GrowthPromoting Traits and Their Effects on Drought Tolerance in Maize. J. Plant Interact. 2020 ,15, 93–105. [CrossRef]163. Latif, M.; Bukhari, S.A.H.; Alrajhi, A.A.; Alotaibi, F.S.; Ahmad, M.; Shahzad, A.N.; Dewidar, A.Z.; Mattar, M.A. Inducing DroughtTolerance in Wheat through E-xopolysaccharide-Producing Rhizobacteria. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 1140. [CrossRef]164. Han, L.; Zhang, M.; Du, L.; Zhang, L.; Li, B. Effects of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens QST713 on Photosynthesis and AntioxidantCharacteristics of Alfalfa ( Medicago sativa L.) under Drought Stress. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 2177. [CrossRef]165. Silva, R.; Filgueiras, L.; Santos, B.; Coelho, M.; Silva, M.; Estrada-Bonilla, G.; Vidal, M.; Baldani, J.I.; Meneses, C. Gluconacetobacterdiazotrophicus Changes The Molecular Mechanisms of Root Development in Oryza sativa L. Growing Under Water Stress. Int. J.Mol. Sci. 2020 ,21, 333. [CrossRef] [PubMed]166. Petrillo, C.; Vitale, E.; Ambrosino, P .; Arena, C.; Isticato, R. Plant Growth-Promoting Bacterial Consortia as a Strategy to AlleviateDrought Stress in Spinacia oleracea .Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 1798. [CrossRef] [PubMed]167. Khan, N.; Bano, A.; Babar, M.A. The stimulatory effects of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria and plant growth regulators onwheat physiology grown in sandy soil. Arch. Microbiol. 2019 ,201, 769–785. [CrossRef]168. Mahmood Aulakh, A.; Qadir, G.; Hassan, F.U.; Hayat, R.; Sultan, T.; Billah, M.; Hussain, M.; Khan, N. Desert Soil Microbes as aMineral Nutrient Acquisition Tool for Chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) Productivity at Different Moisture Regimes. Plants. 2020 ,9, 1629. [CrossRef]169. Govindasamy, V .; George, P .; Kumar, M.; Aher, L.; Raina, S.; Rane, J.; Annapurna, K.; Minhas, P .S. Multi-trait PGP rhizobacterialendophytes alleviate drought stress in a senescent genotype of sorghum [ Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench]. 3 Biotech. 2020 ,10, 13.[CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 33 of 35170. Devarajan, A.K.; Muthukrishanan, G.; Truu, J.; Truu, M.; Ostonen, I.; Kizhaeral, S.S.; Panneerselvam, P .; Kuttalingam Gopalasub-ramanian, S. The Foliar Application of Rice Phyllosphere Bacteria induces Drought-Stress Tolerance in Oryza sativa (L.). Plants.2021 ,10, 387. [CrossRef]171. Karimzadeh, J.; Alikhani, H.A.; Etesami, H.; Pourbabaei, A.A. Improved Phosphorus Uptake by Wheat Plant ( Triticum aestivum L.)with Rhizosphere Fluorescent Pseudomonads Strains Under Water-Deﬁcit Stress. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2021 ,40, 162–178.[CrossRef]172. Silambarasan, S.; Logeswari, P .; Vangnai, A.S.; Kamaraj, B.; Cornejo, P . Plant Growth-Promoting Actinobacterial InoculantAssisted Phytoremediation Increases Cadmium Uptake in Sorghum bicolor under Drought and Heat Stresses. Environ. Pollut.2022 ,307, 119489. [CrossRef]173. Abbasi, S.; Sadeghi, A.; Safaie, N. Streptomyces alleviate drought stress in tomato plants and modulate the expression oftranscription factors ERF1 and WRKY70 genes. Sci. Hortic. 2020 ,265, 109206. [CrossRef]174. Rashid, U.; Yasmin, H.; Hassan, M.N.; Naz, R.; Nosheen, A.; Sajjad, M.; Ilyas, N.; Keyani, R.; Jabeen, Z.; Mumtaz, S.; et al.Drought-tolerant Bacillus megaterium isolated from semi-arid conditions induces systemic tolerance of wheat under droughtconditions. Plant Cell Rep. 2022 ,41, 549–569. [CrossRef] [PubMed]175. Bakhshandeh, E.; Gholamhosseini, M.; Yaghoubian, Y.; Pirdashti, H. Plant growth promoting microorganisms can improvegermination, seedling growth and potassium uptake of soybean under drought and salt stress. Plant Growth Regul. 2020 ,90, 123–136. [CrossRef]176. Tiwari, S.; Lata, C.; Chauhan, P .S.; Nautiyal, C.S. Pseudomonas putida attunes morphophysiological, biochemical and molecularresponses in Cicer arietinum L. during drought stress and recovery. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2016 ,99, 108–117. [CrossRef] [PubMed]177. Saadaoui, N.; Silini, A.; Cherif-Silini, H.; Bouket, A.C.; Alenezi, F.N.; Luptakova, L.; Boulahouat, S.; Belbahri, L. Semi-Arid-Habitat-Adapted Plant-Growth-Promoting RhizobacteriaAllows Efﬁcient Wheat GrowthPromotion. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 2221.[CrossRef]178. Bhatt, R.M.; Selvakumar, G.; Upreti, K.K.; Boregowda, P .C. Effect of Biopriming with Enterobacter Strains on Seed Germinationand Seedling Growth of Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.) Under Osmotic Stress. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2015 ,85, 63–69.[CrossRef]179. Selvakumar, G.; Bhatt, R.M.; Upreti, K.K.; Bindu, H.; Kademani, S. Citricoccus zhacaiensis B-4 (MTCC 12119) a novel osmotolerantplant growth promoting actinobacterium enhances onion ( Allium cepa L.) seed germination under osmotic stress conditions.World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2015 ,31, 833–839. [CrossRef]180. Galeano, R.M.S.; de Russo Godoy, F.M.; Dur é, L.M.M.; Fernandes-J únior, P .I.; Baldani, J.I.; Paggi, G.M.; Zanoelo, F.F.; Brasil, M.S.Potential of Bacterial Strains Isolated from Ironstone Outcrops Bromeliads to Promote Plant Growth Under Drought Conditions.Curr. Microbiol. 2021 ,78, 2741–2752. [CrossRef]181. Kumar, A.; Usmani, Z.; Kumar, V . Biochar and ﬂyash inoculated with plant growth promoting rhizobacteria act as potentialbiofertilizer for luxuriant growth and yield of tomato plant. J. Environ. Manag. 2017 ,190, 20–27. [CrossRef]182. Li, Y.; Shi, H.; Zhang, H.; Chen, S. Amelioration of drought effects in wheat and cucumber by the combined application of superabsorbent polymer and potential biofertilizer. Peer J. 2019 ,7, e6073. [CrossRef]183. Huang, X.F.; Zhou, D.; Lapsansky, E.R.; Reardon, K.F.; Guo, J.; Andales, M.J.; Vivanco, J.M.; Manter, D.K. Mitsuaria sp. andBurkholderia sp. from Arabidopsis rhizosphere enhance drought tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana and maize ( Zea mays L.).PlantSoil2017 ,419, 523–539. [CrossRef]184. Grover, M.; Bodhankar, S.; Sharma, A.; Sharma, P .; Singh, J.; Nain, L. PGPR mediated alterations in root traits: Way towardsustainable crop production. Front. Sustain. Food Sys. 2021 ,4, 618230. [CrossRef]185. Timmusk, S.; Abd El-Daim, I.A.; Copolovici, L.; Tanilas, T.; Kännaste, A.; Behers, L.; Nevo, E.; Seisenbaeva, G.; Niinemets, Ü.Drought-tolerance of wheat improved by rhizosphere bacteria from harsh environments: Enhanced biomass production andreduced emissions of stress volatiles. PLoS ONE 2014 ,9, e96086. [CrossRef] [PubMed]186. Ambreetha, S.; Chinnadurai, C.; Marimuthu, P .; Balachandar, D. Plant-associated Bacillus modulates the expression of auxin-responsive genes of rice and modiﬁes the root architecture. Rhizosphere 2018 ,5, 57–66. [CrossRef]187. Turan, M.; Arjumend, T.; Argın, S.; Yıldırım, E.; Katırcıo˘ glu, H.; Gürkan, B.; Ekinci, M.; Gunes, A.; Kocaman, A.; Bolouri, P . Plantroot enhancement by plant growth promoting rhizobacteria. Plant Roots 2021 , 1–19. [CrossRef]188. Jochum, M.D.; McWilliams, K.L.; Borrego, E.J.; Kolomiets, M.V .; Niu, G.; Pierson, E.A.; Jo, Y.K. Bioprospecting plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria that mitigate drought stress in grasses. Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10, 2106. [CrossRef]189. Mishra, S.K.; Khan, M.H.; Misra, S.; Dixit, V .K.; Gupta, S.; Tiwari, S.; Gupta, S.C.; Chauhan, P .S. Drought tolerant Ochrobactrum sp.inoculation performs multiple roles in maintaining the homeostasis in Zea mays L. subjected to deﬁcit water stress. Plant Physiol.Biochem. 2020 ,150, 1–14. [CrossRef]190. Woo, O.G.; Kim, H.; Kim, J.S.; Keum, H.L.; Lee, K.C.; Sul, W.J.; Lee, J.H. Bacillus subtilis strain GOT9 confers enhanced tolerance todrought and salt stresses in Arabidopsis thaliana and Brassica campestris .Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2020 ,148, 359–367. [CrossRef]191. Mohanty, P .; Singh, P .K.; Chakraborty, D.; Mishra, S.; Pattnaik, R. Insight into the role of PGPR in sustainable agriculture andenvironment. Front. Sustain. Food Sys. 2021 ,5, 667150. [CrossRef]192. Naveed, M.; Hussain, M.B.; Zahir, Z.A.; Mitter, B.; Sessitsch, A. Drought stress amelioration in wheat through inoculation withBurkholderia phytoﬁrmans strain PsJN a. Plant Growth Regul. 2014 ,73, 121–131. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 34 of 35193. Naveed, M.; Mitter, B.; Reichenauer, T.G.; Wieczorek, K.; Sessitsch, A. Increased drought stress resilience of maize throughendophytic colonization by Burkholderia phytoﬁrmans PsJN and Enterobacter sp. FD17. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2014 ,97, 30–39. [CrossRef]194. García, J.E.; Maroniche, G.; Creus, C.; Su árez-Rodr íguez, R.; Ramirez-Trujillo, J.A.; Groppa, M.D. In vitro PGPR properties andosmotic tolerance of different Azospirillum native strains and their effects on growth of maize under drought stress. Microbiol. Res.2017 ,202, 21–29. [CrossRef] [PubMed]195. Kumar, M.; Mishra, S.; Dixit, V .; Kumar, M.; Agarwal, L.; Chauhan, P .S.; Nautiyal, C.S. Synergistic effect of Pseudomonas putidaand Bacillus amyloliquefaciens ameliorates drought stress in chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.).Plant signal. Behav. 2016 ,11, e1071004.[CrossRef] [PubMed]196. De Ara újo, V .L.V .P .; Junior, M.A.L.; de Souza J únior, V .S.; de Ara újo Filho, J.C.; Fracetto, F.J.C.; Andreote, F.D.; Pereira, A.P .A.;Junior, J.P .M.; Barros, F.M.R.; Fracetto, G.G.M. Bacteria from tropical semiarid temporary ponds promote maize growth underhydric stress. Microbiol. Res. 2020 ,240, 126564. [CrossRef] [PubMed]197. Cohen, A.C.; Bottini, R.; Pontin, M.; Berli, F.J.; Moreno, D.; Boccanlandro, H.; Travaglia, C.N.; Piccoli, P .N. Azospirillum brasilenseameliorates the response of Arabidopsis thaliana to drought mainly via enhancement of ABA levels. Physiol. Plant. 2015 ,153, 79–90. [CrossRef] [PubMed]198. Khalilpour, M.; Mozafari, V .; Abbaszadeh-Dahaji, P . Tolerance to salinity and drought stresses in pistachio ( Pistacia vera L.)seedlings inoculated with indigenous stress-tolerant PGPR isolates. Sci. Hortic. 2021 ,289, 110440. [CrossRef]199. Sandhya, V .; Sk, Z.A.; Grover, M.; Reddy, G.; Venkateswarlu, B. Alleviation of drought stress effects in sunﬂower seedlings by theexopolysaccharides producing Pseudomonas putida strain GAP-P45. Biol. Fertil. Soils. 2009 ,46, 17–26. [CrossRef]200. Ma, Y.; Rajkumar, M.; Moreno, A.; Zhang, C.; Freitas, H. Serpentine endophytic bacterium Pseudomonas azotoformans ASS1accelerates phytoremediation of soil metals under drought stress. Chemosphere. 2017 ,185, 75–85. [CrossRef]201. Asghari, B.; Khademian, R.; Sedaghati, B. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) confer drought resistance and stimulatebiosynthesis of secondary metabolites in pennyroyal ( Mentha pulegium L.) under water shortage condition. Sci. Hortic. 2020 ,263, 109132. [CrossRef]202. Yasmin, H.; Rashid, U.; Hassan, M.N.; Nosheen, A.; Naz, R.; Ilyas, N.; Sajjad, M.; Azmat, A.; Alyemeni, M. Volatile organiccompounds produced by Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes alleviated drought stress by modulating defense system in maize ( Zeamays L.).Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 896–911. [CrossRef]203. Ahmad, H.M.; Fiaz, S.; Hafeez, S.; Zahra, S.; Shah, A.N.; Gul, B.; Aziz, O.; Ur-Rahman, M.; Fakhar, A.; Raﬁque, M. Plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria eliminate the effect of drought stress in plants: A review. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,1965 , 875774.[CrossRef]204. Ole´ nska, E.; Małek, W.; W ójcik, M.; Swiecicka, I.; Thijs, S.; Vangronsveld, J. Beneﬁcial features of plant growth-promotingrhizobacteria for improving plant growth and health in challenging conditions: A methodical review. Sci. Total Environ. 2020 ,743, 140682. [CrossRef] [PubMed]205. Abdela, A.A.; Barka, G.D.; Degefu, T. Co-inoculation effect of Mesorhizobium ciceri and Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens on physiologicaland biochemical responses of Kabuli chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) during drought stress. Plant Physiol. Rep. 2020 ,25, 359–369.[CrossRef]206. Asaf, S.; Khan, A.L.; Khan, M.A.; Imran, Q.M.; Yun, B.W.; Lee, I.J. Osmoprotective functions conferred to soybean plants viainoculation with Sphingomonas sp. LK11 and exogenous trehalose. Microbiol. Res. 2017 ,205, 135–145. [CrossRef] [PubMed]207. Kaushal, M.; Wani, S.P . Rhizobacterial-plant interactions: Strategies ensuring plant growth promotion under drought and salinitystress. Agr. Ecosys. Environ. 2016 ,231, 68–78. [CrossRef]208. Gou, W.E.I.; Tian, L.I.; Ruan, Z.H.I.; Zheng, P .E.N.G.; Chen, F.U.C.A.I.; Zhang, L.; Cui, Z.; Li, Z.; Gao, M.; Shi, W. Accumulationof choline and glycinebetaine and drought stress tolerance induced in maize ( Zea mays ) by three plant growth promotingrhizobacteria (PGPR) strains. Pak. J. Bot. 2015 ,47, 581–586.209. Rabhi, N.E.H.; Cherif-Silini, H.; Silini, A.; Alenezi, F.N.; Chenari Bouket, A.; Oszako, T.; Belbahri, L. Alleviation of Salt Stress viaHabitat-Adapted Symbiosis. Forests 2022 ,13, 586. [CrossRef]210. Suárez, R.; Wong, A.; Ram írez, M.; Barraza, A.; Orozco, M.D.C.; Cevallos, M.A.; Lara, M.; Hernandez, G.; Iturriaga, G.Improvement of drought tolerance and grain yield in common bean by overexpressing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase inrhizobia. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2008 ,21, 958–966. [CrossRef]211. Vílchez, J.I.; Garc ía-Fontana, C.; Rom án-Naranjo, D.; Gonz ález-López, J.; Manzanera, M. Plant drought tolerance enhancement bytrehalose production of desiccation-tolerant microorganisms. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1577. [CrossRef]212. Shameer, S.; Prasad, T.N.V .K.V . Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria for sustainable agricultural practices with special referenceto biotic and abiotic stresses. Plant Growth Regul. 2018 ,84, 603–615. [CrossRef]213. Lu, X.; Liu, S.-F.; Yue, L.; Zhao, X.; Zhang, Y.-B.; Xie, Z.-K.; Wang, R.-Y. Epsc Involved in the Encoding of ExopolysaccharidesProduced by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens FZB42 Act to Boost the Drought Tolerance of Arabidopsis thaliana. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 3795. [CrossRef]214. Pereira, S.I.A.; Abreu, D.; Moreira, H.; Vega, A.; Castro, P .M.L. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) improve the growthand nutrient use efﬁciency in maize ( Zea mays L.) under water deﬁcit conditions. Heliyon 2020 ,6, e05106. [CrossRef] [PubMed]215. Dodd, I.C.; Zinovkina, N.Y.; Safronova, V .I.; Belimov, A.A. Rhizobacterial mediation of plant hormone status. Ann. Appl. Biol.2010 ,157, 361–379. [CrossRef]Water 2023 ,15, 418 35 of 35216. Vaishnav, A.; Choudhary, D.K. Regulation of Drought-Responsive Gene Expression in Glycine max L. Merrill is Mediated ThroughPseudomonas simiae Strain AU. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2019 ,38, 333–342. [CrossRef]217. Curá, J.A.; Franz, D.R.; Filosof ía, J.E.; Balestrasse, K.B.; Burgueño, L.E. Inoculation with Azospirillum sp. and Herbaspirillum sp.Bacteria Increases the Tolerance of Maize to Drought Stress. Microorganisms 2017 ,5, 41. [CrossRef]218. Kang, S.M.; Radhakrishnan, R.; Khan, A.L.; Kim, M.J.; Park, J.M.; Kim, B.R.; Shin, D.-H.; Lee, I.-J. Gibberellin secretingrhizobacterium, Pseudomonas putida H-2-3 modulates the hormonal and stress physiology of soybean to improve the plant growthunder saline and drought conditions. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2014 ,84, 115–124. [CrossRef]219. Cohen, A.C.; Travaglia, C.N.; Bottini, R.; Piccoli, P .N. Participation of abscisic acid and gibberellins produced by endophyticAzospirillum in the alleviation of drought effects in maize. Botany. 2009 ,87, 455–462. [CrossRef]220. Mohammadipanah, F.; Zamanzadeh, M. Bacterial Mechanisms Promoting the Tolerance to Drought Stress in Plants. In SecondaryMetabolites of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizomicroorganisms ; Singh, H., Keswani, C., Reddy, M., Sansinenea, E., Garc ía-Estrada, C.,Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019. [CrossRef]221. Eke, P .; Kumar, A.; Sahu, K.P .; Wakam, L.N.; Sheoran, N.; Ashajyothi, M.; Patel, A.; Fekam, F.B. Endophytic bacteria of desertcactus ( Euphorbia trigonas Mill) confer drought tolerance and induce growth promotion in tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.).Microbiol. Res. 2019 ,228, 126302. [CrossRef]222. Glick, B.R. Bacteria with ACC deaminase can promote plant growth and help to feed the world. Microbiol. Res. 2014 ,169, 30–39.[CrossRef]223. Glick, B.R.; Nascimento, F.X. Pseudomonas 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) Deaminase and Its Role in BeneﬁcialPlant-Microbe Interactions. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 2467. [CrossRef]224. Murali, M.; Singh, S.B.; Gowtham, H.G.; Shilpa, N.; Prasad, M.; Aiyaz, M.; Amruthesh, K.N. Induction of drought tolerance inPennisetum glaucum by ACC deaminase producing PGPR- Bacillus amyloliquefaciens through Antioxidant defense system. Microbiol.Res. 2021 ,253, 126891. [CrossRef]225. Ansari, F.A.; Ahmad, I. Alleviating Drought Stress of Crops Through PGPR: Mechanism and Application. In Microbial Interventionsin Agriculture and Environment ; Singh, D., Gupta, V ., Prabha, R., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2019. [CrossRef]226. Zafar-ul-Hye, M.; Danish, S.; Abbas, M.; Ahmad, M.; Munir, T.M. ACC Deaminase Producing PGPR Bacillus amyloliquefaciens andAgrobacterium fabrum along with Biochar Improve Wheat Productivity under Drought Stress. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 343. [CrossRef]227. Mhlongo, M.I.; Piater, L.A.; Dubery, I.A. Proﬁling of Volatile Organic Compounds from Four Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobac-teria by SPME–GC–MS: A Metabolomics Study. Metabolites 2022 ,12, 763. [CrossRef] [PubMed]228. Bhattacharyya, D.; Garladinne, M.; Lee, Y.H. Volatile Indole Produced by Rhizobacterium Proteus vulgaris JBLS202 StimulatesGrowth of Arabidopsis thaliana Through Auxin, Cytokinin, and Brassinosteroid Pathways. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2015 ,34, 158–168.[CrossRef]229. Cho, S.M.; Kang, B.R.; Han, S.H.; Anderson, A.J.; Park, J.Y.; Lee, Y.H.; Cho, B.H.; Yang, K.Y.; Ryu, C.M.; Kim, Y.C. 2R, 3R-butanediol, a bacterial volatile produced by Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6, is involved in induction of systemic tolerance to droughtinArabidopsis thaliana .Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2008 ,21, 1067–1075. [CrossRef]230. Wu, J.; Wang, J.; Hui, W.; Zhao, F.; Wang, P .; Su, C.; Gong, W. Physiology of Plant Responses to Water Stress and Related Genes: AReview. Forests 2022 ,13, 324. [CrossRef]231. Saakre, M.; Baburao, T.M.; Salim, A.P .; Ffancies, R.M.; Achuthan, V .P .; Thomas, G.; Sivarajan, S.R. Identiﬁcation and charac-terization of genes responsible for drought tolerance in rice mediated by Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens .Rice Sci. 2017 ,24, 291–298.[CrossRef]232. Kaushal, M. Portraying rhizobacterial mechanisms in drought tolerance: A way forward toward sustainable agriculture. In PGPRAmelioration in Sustainable Agriculture ; Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, UK, 2019; pp. 195–216. [CrossRef]233. Vargas, L.; Santa Brigida, A.B.; Mota Filho, J.P .; de Carvalho, T.G.; Rojas, C.A.; Vaneechoutte, D.; Bel, M.V .; Farrinelli, L.; Ferreira,P .C.G.; Vandepoel, K.; et al. Drought tolerance conferred to sugarcane by association with Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus : Atranscriptomic view of hormone pathways. PLoS ONE 2014 ,9, e114744. [CrossRef]234. Sukweenadhi, J.; Kim, Y.J.; Choi, E.S.; Koh, S.C.; Lee, S.W.; Kim, Y.J.; Yang, D.C. Paenibacillus yonginensis DCY84T induces changesinArabidopsis thaliana gene expression against aluminum, drought, and salt stress. Microbiol. Res. 2015 ,172, 7–15. [CrossRef]235. Sen, S.; Ghosh, D.; Mohapatra, S. Modulation of polyamine biosynthesis in Arabidopsis thaliana by a drought mitigatingPseudomonas putida strain. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2018 ,129, 180–188. [CrossRef]236. Sonbarse, P .P .; Kiran, K.; Sharma, P .; Parvatam, G. Biochemical and molecular insights of PGPR application for the augmentationof carotenoids, tocopherols, and folate in the foliage of Moringa oleifera. Phytochemistry 2020 ,179, 112506. [CrossRef]237. Omara, A.E.-D.; Hafez, E.M.; Osman, H.S.; Rashwan, E.; El-Said, M.A.A.; Alharbi, K.; Abd El-Moneim, D.; Gowayed, S.M.Collaborative Impact of Compost and Beneﬁcial Rhizobacteria on Soil Properties, Physiological Attributes, and Productivity ofWheat Subjected to Deﬁcit Irrigation in Salt Affected Soil. Plants 2022 ,11, 877. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individualauthor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury topeople or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.