/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046Citation: Elbasiouny, H.;El-Ramady, H.; Elbehiry, F.;Rajput, V .D.; Minkina, T.;Mandzhieva, S. Plant Nutrition underClimate Change and Soil CarbonSequestration. Sustainability 2022 ,14,914. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14020914Academic Editor: Pietro SantamariaReceived: 16 December 2021Accepted: 12 January 2022Published: 14 January 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).sustainabilityReviewPlant Nutrition under Climate Change and SoilCarbon SequestrationHeba Elbasiouny1,*, Hassan El-Ramady2, Fathy Elbehiry3, Vishnu D. Rajput4, Tatiana Minkina4and Saglara Mandzhieva4,51Environmental and Biological Sciences Department, Home Economics Faculty, Al-Azhar University,Tanta 31723, Egypt2Soil and Water Department, Faculty of Agriculture, Kafrelsheikh University, Kafr Elsheikh 33516, Egypt;hassan.elramady@agr.kfs.edu.eg3Central Laboratory of Environmental Studies, Kafrelsheikh University, Kafr Elsheikh 33516, Egypt;Fathyelbehiry@gmail.com4Academy of Biology and Biotechnology, Southern Federal University, 344090 Rostov-on-Don, Russia;rajput.vishnu@gmail.com (V .D.R.); tminkina@mail.ru (T.M.); msaglara@mail.ru (S.M.)5Kalmyk Scientiﬁc Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 358000 Elista, Russia*Correspondence: Hebaelbasiouny@azhar.edu.egAbstract: The climate is one of the key elements impacting several cycles connected to soil and plantsystems, as well as plant production, soil quality, and environmental quality. Due to heightenedhuman activity, the rate of CO 2is rising in the atmosphere. Changing climatic conditions ( such astemperature, CO 2, and precipitation) inﬂuence plant nutrition in a range of ways, comprising miner-alization, decomposition, leaching, and losing nutrients in the soil. Soil carbon sequestration plays anessential function—not only in climate change mitigation but also in plant nutrient accessibility andsoil fertility. As a result, there is a signiﬁcant interest globally in soil carbon capture from atmosphericCO 2and sequestration in the soil via plants. Adopting effective management methods and increasingsoil carbon inputs over outputs will consequently play a crucial role in soil carbon sequestration(SCseq) and plant nutrition. As a result, boosting agricultural yield is necessary for food security,notoriously in developing countries. Several unanswered problems remain regarding climate changeand its impacts on plant nutrition and global food output, which will be elucidated over time. Thisreview provides several remarkable pieces of information about the inﬂuence of changing climaticvariables on plant nutrients (availability and uptake). Additionally, it addresses the effect of soilcarbon sequestration, as one of climate change mitigations, on plant nutrition and how relevantmanagement practices can positively inﬂuence this.Keywords: climate change; elevated CO 2; precipitation; plant nutrition; soil carbon sequestration1. IntroductionHuman activity elevates the atmospheric levels of greenhouse gases (GHGs), causingthe warming of the planet’s surface and a change in the climate [ 1–3]. Undoubtedly, climatechange (CC) caused by global warming poses signiﬁcant environmental risks [ 4]. Changesin CO 2levels in the atmosphere, temperature, and precipitation have a direct effect onagroecosystems (Figure 1), however, agroecosystems also account for almost one-third ofoverall GHG emissions, owing mostly to N fertilizers, livestock, and rice cultivation, andtropical deforestation [ 1,2]. There is much discussion over how varied the signiﬁcance ofthe CC effects will be in different places throughout the world. The least developed anddeveloping countries in the sub-tropics and tropics are more vulnerable to the adverseeffects of CC. Crop productivity in low-income countries is projected to be negativelyaffected as a result of CC [2].Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14020914 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainabilitySustainability 2022 ,14, 914 2 of 20Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 21   Figure 1. The effect of rising temperature an d climate change on agroecosystems. Carbon is an important element of the prim ary building block of all living beings for Earth’s life. It may be seen in a variety of forms, the most popular of which is plant bio-mass. Soil contains around 75% of the total C pool on the ground. As a result, soil is critical to sustaining a balanced global C cycle. Ca rbon dioxide content has increased by 30% in the atmosphere during the last 150 years [5]. The rising CO2 level of the atmosphere is a result of human activity and is linked to st rong and perhaps catastrophic CC. Many solu-tions for dealing with soil misuse or degradat ion could help with CC adaptation [6]. One strategy proposed for reducing atmospheric CO 2 is to enhance C storage in soils. As a result, there is an urgent need to manage so ils and boost their capacity to retain more organic C [5,7]. Preventing and minimizing so il overuse, as well as encouraging sustaina-ble land uses, could improve the fertility of th e soil, enhance C stocks in soil and biomass, and help agricultural production and food security. As a result, soil nutrients are pre-served and the impacts of climate change are mitigated [6].  According to accumulated findings, atmospheric CO2 concentrations will increase by up to 800 ppm through the end of the 21st century, and elevated CO 2 might boost the growth and photosynthesis of plants, whic h would increase biom ass output. Further-more, elevated CO 2 can enhance plants’ water relationships by modulating stomatal clo-sure [8]. This is beneficial for increasing water usage efficiency and mitigating drought damage to the plant. However, higher CO 2 has been demonstrated to have a negative ef-fect on plant nutrient concentrations [8]. One of the most significant components of soil fertility or quality is the amount of soil organic carbon (SOC) [9,10]. The SOC is critical for enhancing the physical, chemical, and biological soil characteristics [7]. It has a close rela-tionship with nutrient cycles and soil fertility in crop fields and it is a vital stock to enhance Figure 1. The effect of rising temperature and climate change on agroecosystems.Carbon is an important element of the primary building block of all living beingsfor Earth’s life. It may be seen in a variety of forms, the most popular of which is plantbiomass. Soil contains around 75% of the total C pool on the ground. As a result, soil iscritical to sustaining a balanced global C cycle. Carbon dioxide content has increased by30% in the atmosphere during the last 150 years [ 5]. The rising CO 2level of the atmosphereis a result of human activity and is linked to strong and perhaps catastrophic CC. Manysolutions for dealing with soil misuse or degradation could help with CC adaptation [ 6].One strategy proposed for reducing atmospheric CO 2is to enhance C storage in soils. Asa result, there is an urgent need to manage soils and boost their capacity to retain moreorganic C [ 5,7]. Preventing and minimizing soil overuse, as well as encouraging sustainableland uses, could improve the fertility of the soil, enhance C stocks in soil and biomass, andhelp agricultural production and food security. As a result, soil nutrients are preserved andthe impacts of climate change are mitigated [6].According to accumulated ﬁndings, atmospheric CO 2concentrations will increaseby up to 800 ppm through the end of the 21st century, and elevated CO 2might boost thegrowth and photosynthesis of plants, which would increase biomass output. Furthermore,elevated CO 2can enhance plants’ water relationships by modulating stomatal closure [ 8].This is beneﬁcial for increasing water usage efﬁciency and mitigating drought damageto the plant. However, higher CO 2has been demonstrated to have a negative effect onplant nutrient concentrations [ 8]. One of the most signiﬁcant components of soil fertility orquality is the amount of soil organic carbon (SOC) [ 9,10]. The SOC is critical for enhancingthe physical, chemical, and biological soil characteristics [ 7]. It has a close relationshipwith nutrient cycles and soil fertility in crop ﬁelds and it is a vital stock to enhance cropSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 3 of 20production and conserve agroecosystems. While enhancing SOC input may stimulatesoil carbon sequestration (SCseq) and ensure long-term soil productivity, its efﬁcacy inboosting SCseq varies between studies. Clearly, SOC dynamics in different fractions areinﬂuenced mostly by the chemical structure of organic inputs and the availability of soilnutrients, as they both play a role in controlling microbial metabolism. Thus, conserving orenhancing SOC stock in agricultural soil is a crucial part of sustainable land managementfor both agronomic and environmental reasons [ 10,11]. This review highlights the twomost signiﬁcant issues; (1) the inﬂuence of climate change on the availability and uptake ofplant nutrients; and (2) the inﬂuence of SCseq on enhancing plant nutrition uptake.2. Plant Nutrition under Climate ChangeThe plant needs some mineral nutrients for optimum growth and development. Thesenutrients are essential constituents of several macromolecules, which include nucleic acids,phospholipids, speciﬁc amino acids, and various co-enzymes, and they play an importantrole in plants’ cellular metabolism. Furthermore, they aid in chlorophyll production, redoxprocesses, plasma membrane integrity, and cellosmotic potential [ 12]. The climate, as akey element of global ecosystems, has had a signiﬁcant effect on the cycles and processesassociated with humans, plants, and animals [ 13]. One of the most important elementsinﬂuencing plant productivity is soil nutrition. Simultaneously, the availability of soilnutrients to plants varies widely among species [ 14]. Nutrient availability is vulnerable toCC. However, global warming may modify overall annual and seasonal nutrient availabilityand cycling [ 15]. In particular, variations in C, N, and P availability have serious impactsfor plants because they are essential nutrients for plant development.In addition, P has a major effect on water-use efﬁcacy, regulating plant sensitivity todrought stress. These CCs, along with the signiﬁcant spatial variability of soil nutrientsand processes related to changes in habitat quality, result in a complicated scenario thatinﬂuences soil microbial activity and hence nutrient availability for the plant. In addition, itis becoming increasingly obvious that variations in temperature or precipitation caused byCC change nutrient cycles and, as a result, plant nutrient availability [ 16]. Arndal et al. [ 17]reported that increased CO 2, rising temperatures, and water stress are key variables thatmight alter future nutritional demand and availability. The growth of plants has beendemonstrated to enhance and boost plant root biomass in many kinds of grassland whenCO 2levels are increased. However, it is unclear whether plants will be able to exchangeextra carbon for nutrients as a result of CC. Plant nutrient uptake will be controlled bycompensative modiﬁcations under high CO 2, and initiation of the mycorrhizal relationshipis one of the potential mechanisms for improving nutrient uptake.With CC, nutrient uptake will have to be preserved at current levels and also to beincreased owing to the dispersion effect of more C assimilation to preserve nutrient con-centrations in agricultural products. There is a functional equilibrium between shoot androot growth to improve a plant’s uptake of nutrients from the soil and atmosphere. Thephotosynthetic efﬁciency leaf weight is correlated to the nutrient uptake the rootweight. If one of the previous four parameters is changed, the balance is changed unlesssome other parameter is also changed. In non-woody plants, increased CO 2in the atmo-sphere stimulates root and shoot development, with root growth exceeding shoot growth.Nevertheless, root growth is only encouraged if N is not a limiting factor [ 18]. However,the relationship between plant nutrition and climate change is extremely complicatedbecause climatic circumstances impact all plant growth phases, including development,metabolism, physiology, and plant yields [ 19]. Agroecosystems capture water, light, CO 2,and nutrients and use them to make various plant products such as proteins, carbohydrates,and starch. Solar radiation drives the total plant process, which is chemically convertedvia the photosynthesis process [ 20]. Globally, CC is a severe challenge that has simulatedthe curiosity of the world’s scientiﬁc community. The temperature rise caused by numer-ous human activities is the primary driving force behind CC. It has been observed thatthe average temperature of the surface of Earth has risen by about 0.9C since the lateSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 4 of 2019th century , with CO 2that caused by human activities being the primary cause of thisrise [ 21]. Nonetheless, the CC affects temperature, water availability, and CO 2, whichaffects the process of plant development and, ultimately, plants’ capacity to efﬁcientlygenerate the abovementioned items that people require as food [20].According to Dotaniya et al. [ 13], the overall impact of CC will decrease SOC pools, re-leasing more CO 2into the atmosphere, which will act as a positive feedback, increasing CC .As a result, reducing atmospheric global warming gas emissions and improving SOC isa global problem. According to Brouder and Volenec [ 22], CC factors including tempera-ture, precipitation (quantityand distribution), and atmospheric CO 2levels are expected toimpact agricultural production patterns over the world. Changing precipitation patternsand greater global temperatures are projected to be connected with increased CO 2levels,and these variables may diminish or cancel any improvements in output or perhaps lowerproduction below the critical levels. According to Bocchiola et al. [ 23],the effects of CCon agriculture may include (1) CO 2increasing in respiration, primarily for C3 plants,and (2) variations in temperature and rainfall, possibly leading to altered agricultural out-put over the twenty-ﬁrst century.However, according to Amouzou et al. [ 24], CC and variability threaten crops andfood security in some areas. Production systems that are already vulnerable to soil fertilityloss have become increasingly vulnerable to rainfall variability and climate change. Thesepressures will have the greatest effect on resource efﬁciency in cereal-based agriculturalsystems like maize ( Zea mays ) and sorghum ( Sorghum bicolor ). Brouder and Volenec [ 22]emphasized that any possible variations in agricultural productivity may result in relatedchanges in the application of plant nutrients. Local possible productivity is inﬂuenced bydominant climate, surrounding CO 2levels, and crop features; however, this productivity isnearly continually controlled by the resources of the root zone (i.e., water and nutrients) anddecreased by diseases and pests. They also emphasized that existing recommendations onnutrient management depend on the recognition of crop-speciﬁc requirements to achieveexpected production and soil-speciﬁc nutrient provisions.2.1. The Effect of CO 2ElevationElevated CO 2in the atmosphere has direct and indirect impacts on soil properties andprocesses via forced alterations in soil water and temperature, in addition to the competingof nutrients [ 13]. Investigations on plant response to the elevation of CO 2may not berepresentative of the conditions of actual ﬁelds in some plant species. There was a drawbackin the effectiveness of the experiments of raised CO 2and temperature for determiningtheir impacts on photosynthesis and other processes of the ecosystem. They attributedthis to incorporating short-term sudden variations in elevated CO 2or temperature in thelaboratory or ﬁeld experiments. These changes rarely generated quantiﬁable variationsin net primary productivity (NPP), C in the ecosystem, or other properties linked to long-standing responses to continuing CC [ 20]. Hatﬁeld and Prueger [ 20] studied the inﬂuenceof elevated CO 2on native grass and cultivated ecosystems and found that understandingthe link between CC and plant nutrition may be best accomplished ﬁrstly by understandingthis interaction in both range and grazing areas. Nitrogen is a limiting element for plantdevelopment in certain ecosystems. Terrestrial N exists in organic forms that are unavailableto plants and so the concept of how the response of rangeland to global CC will differdepending on the N cycling rate among the organic and inorganic N molecules being tested.Plant materials or roots that fall to the soil surface are degraded by fauna and microﬂora inthe soil and so become a component of the soil organic matter (SOM) pool. Plant-availableN forms and other minerals will be produced during the SOM decomposition stage. Manyenvironmental and plant factors inﬂuence the rate of N-release, which is then impacted byCC and CO 2enrichment.The interplay between CO 2and N in cultivated agroecosystems is as complex as it is innative ecosystems. The critical concentration of N for sufﬁcient growth declined in severalspecies when CO 2concentration increased. Hatﬁeld and Prueger [ 20] supposed that one ofSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 5 of 20the essential questions in this context was whether elevating CO 2concentrations inﬂuencedthe plant nutrient concentrations. It is proposed that the required amount of N fertilizer inC3crops for achieving the greatest productivity under elevated CO 2concentration wouldnot increase because the critical concentration of N declines in C 3species with elevatingCO 2. On the other hand, in C 4plants, the required N for achieving maximum productioncould increase owing to no indication of N decreasing with elevating CO 2. Although theyrecommended that not all these changes could be speciﬁcally attributed to elevating CO 2,CO 2rising might have been a factor associated with this decline.Nitrogen is an essential nutrient that inﬂuences plant development and physiology. Itis also a key component of amino acids, protein, nucleic acids, and chlorophyll, helpingto regulate C absorption and metabolism. It is indicated that elevated CO 2reduces leaf Ncontent, in general, due to the diluting effect. Moreover, the decreased transpiration rate byelevated CO 2might cause a decrease in mass ﬂow, reducing N absorption with the massﬂow. Furthermore, the N concentration in plants may be connected to endogenous abscisicacid concentrations, which are inﬂuenced by variations in root development. Furthermore,low leaf N might enhance cytokinin levels under elevated CO 2, encouraging stomatalopening. It is noteworthy that N can impact the accumulation of endogenous abscisicacid and the responses of the stomata to endogenous abscisic acid, thereby inﬂuencing thestomatal response to the stress of drought under elevated O 2growth conditions [8].Seneweera and Norton [ 25] stated that the response of legumes to elevating CO 2variesbetween plant species and may reveal variable degrees of determinacy or the effects ofnutrient limitations other than those chosen because of simulated growth. They addedthat P and Mo have been involved in limiting elevated CO 2responses in speciﬁc situations,though this might be counted as a typical drawback that may become worse if C andN supplies increase. Generally, elevated CO 2in the atmosphere induced ﬂuctuations intemperature and precipitation, which lead to alterations in the vital soil processes thatexpose the soils to many kinds of degradation—physio-chemical degradation, salinization,erosion, reduced available water with changes in the soil, declined soil nutrient storage,and depletion of soil biodiversity. Such unfavorable changes pose a big threat to soilproductivity, water and soil quality, and production system sustainability [21].It was reported that increased CO 2reduced the levels of other nutrients in ediblesections of crops, which were lower than N concentrations, such as Ca, K, Mg, and P . HighCO 2levels have also been demonstrated to reduce plant concentrations of Co, Fe, Mg, Mn,Ni, S, and Zn [ 18,26,27]. However, Wang et al. [ 28] reported that although increased CO 2has a beneﬁcial effect on agricultural productivity, warming has the capacity to negativelyaffect crop yield by reducing photosynthetic C absorption rates and shortening the growthperiod of plants. They added that it is unknown how variations in plant growth causedby CO 2elevation and/or warming impact will make soil micro-nutrients available andaccessible to plants (i.e., it is not only controlled by its soil concentration but also byclimatic conditions). However, Wang et al. [ 28] mentioned that elevated CO 2and warmingtogether increased the availability of several soil micronutrients like Cu, Fe, and Zn. Inaddition, these climatic variables had a considerable effect on wheat’s micronutrient uptakeand translocation. However, an increase in the availability of soil micronutrients did notnecessarily increase micronutrient uptake (which is affected by the element types and cropgrowth stage).2.2. The Effect of TemperatureHigh temperatures result in an increase in CO 2efﬂux from the soil. Global warming islowering the SOC stock by boosting the rate of decomposition and, as a result, the residencetime of C in the soil. As a result, soils are expected to be the main source of CO 2emissionsin the future [ 29]. The increasing temperature modiﬁes the factor of plant nutrients anddifferent nutrient cycles in nature [ 13]. The rising temperature also inﬂuences physiologicalprocesses such as photosynthesis and respiration. The net impact of CC will vary owing tospeciﬁc conditions. Therefore, in areas with cold spring and summer periods, where theSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 6 of 20growing season is short, higher temperatures may improve the crop yields. However, awarmer climate will reduce yields when the temperature increases. Additionally, increasingthe temperature can shorten the growth and grain ﬁlling periods of the crop. Furthermore,various crop cultivars may display diverse responses to upcoming CC because of differentseasons’ lengths [ 30]. Arndal et al. [ 17] stated that higher temperatures are likely tolengthen the growing season and enhance net mineralization, resulting in increased nutrientavailability and perhaps increased uptake. Temperature increases caused by CC, which areboth expected and observed to happen at faster rates at higher elevations, are believed topromote soil microbial activity and inﬂuence its physiology, resulting in higher levels of Nmineralization and decomposing SOM at a quicker pace. This might result in releasing soilnutrients and their availability and decreased nutrient restriction. This happens more atwarmer temperatures than colder ones [15,18].The expected increases in temperature in the 21st century will likely inﬂuence theavailability of nutrients in terrestrial ecosystems because biological pathways such asSOM decomposition and mineralization and N nitriﬁcation generally rise with increasingtemperature [ 31,32]. Soils will be affected by CC through increasing the nutrient leachingrate and soil erosion [ 1], thus increasing nutrient depletion. Lotze-Campe [ 1] explained thathigher temperatures affect nutrient conservation because warmer temperatures are possiblyincreasing the natural decomposition of SOM as a result of microbial activity stimulation.When mineralization is higher than plant uptake, the consequence will be the leachingof nutrients (Figure 2). It largely happens if plant requirements are low and nitrogenmineralization rates increase owing to rising soil temperatures. Wrage et al. [ 33] statedthat P is an essential element for plant energy and sugar metabolism. Soil P availabilityis inﬂuenced by global CC. The P mineralization in litter tends to rise as temperaturesrise. Temperature rises of 0.3 to 6.0 increased interest in mineralization by an average of48%. Phosphatase exudation and plant P uptake are stimulated by higher levels of N. Thismight lead to higher soil P availability, which would be boosted further by enhanced Pmobilization as a result of human activity. This will limit phytodiversity while promotingthe spread of ruderal, fast growing plants [33].Sustainability 2022 , 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 21   Figure 2. The effect of CC and rising temperature on SOM decomposition and thus soil nutrients. 2.3. The Effect of Precipitation Global CC has already resulted in considerable variations in the volume, intensity, duration, and geography of rainfall. In addition, a large increase in the surface air temper-ature and seasonal patterns with similar or stro nger moves are projected in the future [36]. Although rising temperatures are certain in the future, the projection of precipitation trends is still uncertain [32]. Precipitation changes and air temperature increases will sub-stantially affect the prevailing temperature and moisture schemes of the root zone. The type and degree of the variations in both fact ors’ characteristics involve leaf area index and ground litter stores [22]. The considerable variations in precipitation directly influences the yield, especially in semi-arid and arid climates. Soil water is an  essential resource in agriculture. Nutrient absorption is connected to soil water availabi lity, which may be affected by climate change and changing precipitation patterns [37]. Additionally, nutrient leaching will also be forced by increased precipitation. It is known that intensive rainfall increases soil erosion, which is likely to be higher under CC. An increase of 1% in precipitation is projected to result in a 1.5 to 2% increase in erosion. In tensive rain and transforming from snowing to raining will moreover increase the erosion rate. Plant cover reduces soil erosion rates by weakening rain power (in addition to stabilizing soils by root and reducing sediment transportation by crop residue). Thus, variations in plant biomass can increase those im-pacts of soil erosion and nutrient leaching. On the other hand, in arid and semiarid cli-mates, dry soil is susceptible to soil erosio n across wind and rain [1]. Howden and Crimp [1] stated that commonly the integrating impa cts of expected higher temperatures and decreased in-crop rainfall will lead to lower yields, an increase in the variability of yields, erosion risk, and thus the need for enhanced nutrient and water management. They also added that adaptation options in this regard  include several different (separate or com-bined) levels of response, such as changing inputs (i.e., crop diversities and nutrient man-agement) for matching the domi nant climate, altering the amount and improving the pro-ficiency of irrigation water, and more intensive residue and canopy management. Climatic extremes in precipitation (such as floods and droughts) also cause damage to crop farming, which results in a reduction in the overall farm yields [1,2]. Rosenblatt Figure 2. The effect of CC and rising temperature on SOM decomposition and thus soil nutrients.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 7 of 20Hatﬁeld and Prueger [ 20] also reported that increasing temperatures accelerate thedecomposition of SOM with much greater impacts in colder areas where minor elevationsin temperature may have sensational inﬂuences on the decomposition of SOM plus othersoil processes. On the other hand, increasing warming will interplay with soil water andincrease its evaporation, which may constrain microbial activity. When the soil waterbecomes limiting, the interplay between temperature and soil water will grow and decom-position will be more reliant on the soil water content and less dependent on temperature.The low soil water content will decline the decomposition rates. Kirschbaum [ 34] reportedthat the temperature dependency of organic matter decomposition is signiﬁcant in termsof ecophysiology, especially in light of potential CC feedback effects. It largely regulateswhether or how much C will be emitted as a result of global warming, as well as theamount to which that C release constitutes a harmful positive feedback effect that results inmore warming. Howden and Crimp [ 35] stated that climate is the main driver of croppingactivities through signiﬁcant impacts in the crop cycle involving soil moisture, droughtsduring the grain-ﬁlling period, heat damage, frost, and storm damages. Moreover, climateaffects nutrient leaching, salt mobilization, and erosion risk. The CC may modify manyof these impacts; for instance, the increasing temperature will lead to damage of grainnumbers and quality, promoting drought stress and slashing initial soil water conditions.On the contrary, CC may also result in a decline in other hazards like dryland salinization.2.3. The Effect of PrecipitationGlobal CC has already resulted in considerable variations in the volume, intensity,duration, and geography of rainfall. In addition, a large increase in the surface air tempera-ture and seasonal patterns with similar or stronger moves are projected in the future [ 36].Although rising temperatures are certain in the future, the projection of precipitation trendsis still uncertain [ 32]. Precipitation changes and air temperature increases will substantiallyaffect the prevailing temperature and moisture schemes of the root zone. The type anddegree of the variations in both factors’ characteristics involve leaf area index and groundlitter stores [22].The considerable variations in precipitation directly inﬂuences the yield, especiallyin semi-arid and arid climates. Soil water is an essential resource in agriculture. Nutrientabsorption is connected to soil water availability, which may be affected by climate changeand changing precipitation patterns [ 37]. Additionally, nutrient leaching will also be forcedby increased precipitation. It is known that intensive rainfall increases soil erosion, whichis likely to be higher under CC. An increase of 1% in precipitation is projected to result in a1.5 to 2% increase in erosion. Intensive rain and transforming from snowing to raining willmoreover increase the erosion rate. Plant cover reduces soil erosion rates by weakening rainpower (in addition to stabilizing soils by root and reducing sediment transportation by cropresidue). Thus, variations in plant biomass can increase those impacts of soil erosion andnutrient leaching. On the other hand, in arid and semiarid climates, dry soil is susceptibleto soil erosion across wind and rain [ 1]. Howden and Crimp [ 1] stated that commonlythe integrating impacts of expected higher temperatures and decreased in-crop rainfallwill lead to lower yields, an increase in the variability of yields, erosion risk, and thusthe need for enhanced nutrient and water management. They also added that adaptationoptions in this regard include several different (separate or combined) levels of response,such as changing inputs (i.e., crop diversities and nutrient management) for matching thedominant climate, altering the amount and improving the proﬁciency of irrigation water,and more intensive residue and canopy management.Climatic extremes in precipitation (such as ﬂoods and droughts) also cause damage tocrop farming, which results in a reduction in the overall farm yields [ 1,2]. Rosenblatt andSchmitz [ 38] mentioned that although the precipitation is not projected to vary regularlyover the world as CC continues, a consistent tendency over lots of terrestrial ecosystems isincreasing the frequency of droughts, which has already doubled since 1970. Low waterpotential remains a widespread limiting factor of soil microbial activity (and thus nutrientSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 8 of 20mineralization) and in extremely dry soils may result in total inhibition in microbial activity.For example, the drought serious effect on mineralization is very distinct at high soiltemperatures compared with low ones. Soil microorganisms physiologically respond todrought in many ways, such as a decline in cell osmotic potential, then by dehydration,and ultimately the death of microorganisms. In addition, Arndal et al. [ 17] reported thatﬁne roots may dehydrate throughout a drought, reducing nutrient uptake and leading todeclining root activity and nutrient mobility.Generally, the fall of microbial activity in drought circumstances looks to be related tothe drying length [ 32]. Rosenblatt and Schmitz [ 38] added that carbohydrate and proteinlevels generally increase in drought-stressed plants when osmotic potential decreases,allowing plants to retain more water. Furthermore, when drought stress increases, therelative water content of the leaves declines. However, the impacts of drought on plantnutrition are complex and vary depending on species, development stage, tissue type,drought severity, and length. Table 1 presents some studies that address the inﬂuence ofclimatic conditions on plant nutrition.Table 1. Effect of climate variables on plant availability and uptake of plant nutrients.Climate Variable Study Objective The Effect on Plant The Ecosystem Ref.- Air warming- ShadingWith fertilizing- Investigating thesimultaneous responses ofbiomass, N, and P in plantsafter ﬁve years offertilizing, air warming,and shading- Plants signiﬁcantlyresponded to fertilizer byincreasing N and P uptake(among other effects)- Plants responded little towarming, showing adecrease in N and P- Plants did not respond muchto shadingTwo plants communitypredominated byCassiope tetragona (L.)[39]- Variable rainfall- Investigating the effects ofthree opposing climaticscenarios on C, N, and Pfractions (amongother aims)- The studied climatic scenariodid not inﬂuence the nutrientcontents in the litter layer- Increased rainfall-inducedmicrobial and plant nutrientuptake and nutrient cycling- Declined rainfall resulted innutrient accumulation in soil,which increases the nutrientloss risk (by erosionor leaching)Mediterranean forest,shrubland, andopen areas[16]- Elevated CO 2- Warming- DroughtStudy the root nutrient uptakeunder predicted climate change- The root growth increasedunder the studied climaticvariables- N and P uptake did notincrease comparably withroot growth after 5 years oftreatmentDryheathland/grassland[17]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 9 of 20Table 1. Cont .- CO 2enrichment- WarmingInvestigate the effect of CO 2enrichment and warming on theavailability and plant uptake ofsoil micronutrients- Availability of somemicronutrients (Cu, Fe, Mn,and Zn) improved after CO 2enrichment, while theavailability of Cu, Fe, and Znimproved after warming- The uptake of Mn and Zn bywheat was increased by CO 2enrichment, while the uptakeof Cu and Fe was increasedby warming- Paddy ﬁeld (withrice–wheatrotation)cultivated withwheat at the timeof the experiment[28]- Variabletemperature- Snow melt- Other factorsInvestigate the effect ofenvironmental conditions onnutrient availability- The snow melt delay did notchange the seasonal soildynamics of N and Pconcentrations- At the warmest site, net Nmineralization was highestwhile P wassigniﬁcantly immobilized- Sub-Arcticcatchment [15]- CO 2enrichment- WarmingStudying the effect of CO 2enrichment and canopywarming on nutrientconcentration and accumulation(among other aims)- CO 2enrichment decreasedN, P , and K concentrationand did not change theaccumulation of N and P- The warming increased theconcentrations of N, P , and K,while it decreasedtheir accumulation- Rice ﬁeld(Oryza sativa ) [40]- Predictedwarming- PredicteddroughtWith the pathogeneffectExamining the effect of climaticvariables and pathogenson C, N, and P- Phytophthora cinnamomipathogen induced mortalityinQ. suber trees- Predicted warming anddrought may concurrentlyinteract to alterbiogeochemical cyclesin the soilMediterraneanforest soil[41]- Elevated CO 2with N supply- Elevated CO 2decreased theplant N acquisition andmajor ionic concentrations(NO 3 , SO 42 , PO 43 andCl ) in xylem sap[42]- Climatic factorswith soil factor- Examining the variation ofplant N and P among thedesert plant organs andtheir response to soil andclimatic factors.- Soil factors had direct effectson N and P stoichiometryamong organs, while climaticfactors had indirect effectsDesert soil [43]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 10 of 20Table 1. Cont .- ElevatedatmosphericCO 2- Elevatedtemperature- Examining the individualand combined effect ofelevated CO 2and elevatedtemperature on treegrowth, N mineralization,and N availability, amongother aims- Plant growth was stronglystimulated under elevatedCO 2but not elevatedtemperature- Available N signiﬁcantlycorrelated with plant height- The N mineralizationresponse and nutrientavailability to elevated CO 2and temperature variedwith timeEucalyptusglobulus plants[44]3. Soil Carbon Sequestration (SCseq) and Plant Nutrition3.1. Carbon Storage in the SoilSoil is the largest and most important C reservoir globally. It comprises about 75%of the total C stock in terrestrial ecosystems and stores more C (1500 to 1600 Pg C) thanthe atmosphere (780 Pg C) and vegetation (620 Pg C) put together [ 45–47]. However, it isreported in [ 48] that soil C storage is about 2500 Pg and consists of about 1550 Pg SOC whilethe other amount is soil inorganic C. The SOC is the key feature of soil biogeochemistry tomaintain soil ecosystem services like nutrient cycling, microbiomes, soil health, and erosioncontrol [ 49]. Liang et al. [ 49] also reported that SOC, as the largest terrestrial C storageglobally, ranges from 2376 to 2456 Pg C in the top 2 m and about 1220 to 2000 Pg C in thetop 1 m. About 46 to 61% is stored deeper than the top 30 cm.Currently, national or regional scales of SOC content and SCseq investigation, par-ticularly in agricultural soils, is really interesting, partially due to its prominent role inCC and environmental quality and partially due to SOC being the greatest considerablefactor determining soil fertility, soil quality, and consequently crop productivity and sus-tainability [ 13,50–55]. Agricultural management for enhancing SOC must either increaseSOM inputs, decrease SOM decomposition and oxidation, or both [ 56]. Indeed, increasingSOM stock is valuable for soil fertility, as organic matter mineralization could provideplant nutrients. However, this requires the implementation of agricultural practices thatare adapted to local situations and will enhance soil C inputs with stable or decreasingoutputs, thus maximizing soil C storage [57].The agricultural ecosystem plays one of the most active roles in the global C stock andhas equivalent or larger net production (NP) than the natural ones. By 2030, agriculturalecosystems may mitigate CO 2emissions by 5.5 to 6.0 Gt CO 2yr 1, with about 89% of thisquantity being a result of SOC storage. Several activities, for example, cultivation, irrigation,and fertilization, may affect agricultural ecosystems, causing great variations in net CO 2exchange in the ecosystem. However, soil degradation and water pollution can happen dueto excessive fertilization, and this may counter the beneﬁts of carbon sequestration [58].The SOC represents approximately 50–60% of SOM. The SOM comprises all the organicsoil components, including living biomass (intact plant, animal tissues, and microorgan-isms), plant residue, dead roots, dead tissue, and soil humus. SOM, along with plantand animal detritus, are essential for soil biological activity and is a key source of energy,nutrients, and habitats for most soil organisms. Soil biodiversity is directly related to SOCand SOM is closely related. Soil biodiversity refers to the mix of soil living organisms thatincludes bacteria, fungi, protozoa, worms, insects, various invertebrates, and vertebratesinteracting with each other and with plants and small animals to create a biological activityweb that conserves soil fertility [59].Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 11 of 203.2. Soil Carbon SequestrationGoh [ 60] suggested reducing or retarding the accumulation of atmospheric GHGsby increasing SCseq and storage to mitigate CC. Goh [ 60] cited the description of carbonsequestration given by Eswaran et al. [ 61], which is “medium and long-term (15 to 50 years)C storage in terrestrial ecosystems, in underground largely as carbonates”, or in the oceans.Lal et al. [ 62] cited the deﬁnition of sequestration as “the provision of long-term storage ofcarbon in the terrestrial biosphere, underground, or the oceans so that the buildup of CO 2(the principal GHG) concentration in the atmosphere will reduce or slow”. Stout et al. [ 63]deﬁned SCseq as “the process of transferring CO 2from the atmosphere into soils throughcrop residues”. It is deﬁned also as “the process of transferring carbon dioxide from theatmosphere into the soil through crop residue and other organic solids and in a form thatis not immediately remitted” [ 5,64]. Sarfraz et al. [ 21] stated that carbon sequestration isrelated to accumulating C in a stable solid form.C sequestration is controlled by many factors, such as the rate of production anddecomposition of SOM, parent material, temperature, rainfall, landscape position, livingorganisms, and various management processes. The SOM, more than any other factor,participates in changing soil C storage and inﬂuences SCseq. In addition, there are somevariations in SOM depending on the soil, release, and transport, and hence these factorsaffect the soil’s physiochemical and biological properties and can decrease the potentialSCseq [ 21]. Thus, the SOC content in a speciﬁc soil is the result of the long-term balancebetween SOC additions and losses [ 51,60]. Minor gradual variations in the SOC stock couldlead to signiﬁcant impacts on the concentration of atmospheric C. On the contrary, somepractices like residue removal, intensive tillage, and improper soil nutrient management candeplete not only SOC but also N pools and interrupt their dynamics. Thus, C sequestrationusing improved management practices of soils and crops is necessary to enhance theproductivity system and soil quality [ 65]. Improving SOC is connected to organic carbon(OC) inputs in agroecosystems. For example, an increase in OC inputs associated with highyields of the crop can increase the SOC content. Generally, there is a positive correlationbetween SOC and crop productivity. Thus, high biomass would result in more OC inputsinto soils and then enhance SOC sequestration [51,66].Increasing the stored SOC may improve soil quality because SOC contributes to manyuseful processes in the soil ecosystem (i.e., biological, physical, and chemical processes).When SOC is below 1%, soil health may be restricted and yield potential may not beaccomplished [ 66,67]. On the other hand, increasing the SOC is a way to increase Csequestration as it increases the capability of agroecosystems to absorb atmospheric CO 2and store it in the soil. Therefore, SOC management is a climate change mitigating option.Several studies have conﬁrmed the potential of soil carbon sequestration and its signiﬁcancefor plant nutrition on the one hand and soil quality on the other. Some studies providesome dynamics for managing soil C, such as the following: Decreasing disturbing soil to maintain C in the aggregates, Improving the amount and quality of biomass [68], Improving richness and functionaries of useful microbes in the soil, and Preserving continual vegetation on the soil surface [69].Some other studies have presented some management choices for restoring soil Crepresentation, including conservation tillage [ 65,70], cropping systems [ 71], legume-basedcrop rotation [ 72,73], cover crops [ 54], integrated nutrient management [ 74,75], irrigationmanagement [76], agroforestry systems [77,78], and grass land/pasture management [79].Nutrient supply is one of the biological advantages of increasing SOC. It was statedin [62] that the decrease in the SOC stock would have opposing consequences on soilquality. Shi et al. [ 80] stated that SOC content acts as a surrogate for SOM, which is the mainsupplier of plant nutrients and hence soil fertility. Thus, quantifying the variations in soil Cis essential to understanding the global C cycle and soil fertility. Pimentel and Burgess [ 81]reported that soil C correlates with SOM content. High SOM content has many beneﬁts,including an increase in the retention of plant nutrients, among others. In addition, it alsoSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 12 of 20facilitates plant nutrient movement from the soil to the plants, causing better crop growthand production.SOM modiﬁes the physiochemical and biological soil properties. It physically im-proves soil particle aggregation, which results in better soil structure, allows air and watermovement through the soil, and contributes to better root growth. This reduces soil erosion,retains soil nutrients, and protects water quality. It chemically increases the soil CEC(leading to higher retention of positively charged nutrient ions such as Ca, Fe, K, Mg, Zn,and many others) where cation exchange sites are very important for nutrient retention,while biologically SOC is the major source of energy for most microorganisms and faunain the soil. Therefore, increasing the SOC enhances the soil biodiversity and the biomass,which in turn drives the soil microbial transformations and enhances the plant nutrients’availability [ 82,83]. The SOC quantity, together with the organic input quantity and type,has great impacts on the nutrient dynamics. The SOM itself is considered a large nutrientreservoir that is gradually released by the activity of soil, microorganisms, and fauna, whichis especially important for N, P , and S plant supply [83].It is reported in [ 62] that aggregation reduction may aggravate the challenges ofwater runoff, erosion, crusting, and compaction. Thus, increasing plant nutrient loss,either inherent or applied, and water could reduce their use efﬁciency as well as theirproductivity. They also described that the depletion of SOC is one of the most importantbiological process factors for increasing and extending soil degradation, in addition tophysical (compaction, erosion, anaerobiosis), chemical (elemental imbalance, salinization,and acidiﬁcation), and other biological (shift in soil ﬂora and fauna activity) processes.Thus, increasing the SOC of degraded soils also increases crop yields through (1) rising theavailable water, (2) enhancing the nutrient supply, and (3) improving the soil structure, inaddition to other physical properties, which in turn improves soil quality.Plants’ impact on SOM is twofold. Firstly, plants, as autotrophic organisms, arethe key SOC source throughout their development (i.e., shoot and roots) through rootexudates, which are a result of passive and active mechanisms, and symbiotic (i.e., N-ﬁxingand mycorrhizal) relations. Secondly, plants participate in SOM stabilization processesby creating inadequately degradable composites and stimulating the creation of stableaggregates. Additionally, by controlling erosion plants contribute to SOM conservation [ 57].Grovera et al. [ 84] stated that plants rhizodeposit around 40% of the photosyntheticallyﬁxed C to the soil. Organic composites generated by roots act as nutrients for soil biota,encouraging increased rhizosphere microbial activity. Rhizodeposit compositions caneclectically govern the microbial communities in the soil rhizosphere, enabling protectiveand useful relationships and warranting the availability of important nutrients, whichaffects the physiochemical properties of the soil. The C absorption in microbial biomassand roots increases the soil C pool (i.e., C sink), while microbial and root respiration, aswell as SOM decomposition by soil biota, results in C efﬂuxes (i.e., C sources). Organicamendments are greatly recommended as an alternative to mineral fertilizers for severalessential plant nutrients and are considered good practice for sustaining crop production,improving soil fertility, and enhancing carbon sequestration. It has been shown that organicamendments can improve soil carbon sequestration across its direct input of OC into soilsand can signiﬁcantly inﬂuence the nature and creation of soil aggregates, subsequentlycontrolling the decomposition and transformation of SOC [ 66]. Liang et al. [ 49] and Gorovaet al. [ 84] stated also that SOC storage primarily relies on the balance of OC inputs (i.e., plantresidues, roots, and rhizo-depositions) and outputs (i.e., organic matter (OM) losses throughrespiration and decomposition). Moreover, SOC storage changes due to fertilization in thesurface and subsurface soils. Long-term fertilization normally increases organic C inputvia the roots, crop residues, and manure, while SOC decomposition is likely enhanced as aresult of the initial effect forced by microbial utilization of C exudated by plant roots [ 49].However, the nutrient imbalance may result in an initial effect that stimulates the microbialdeterioration of recalcitrant SOM into nutrients and converts soil C sinks into soil C sources.As a result of this initial effect, elevated CO 2also considerably enhances plant biomass inSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 13 of 20unfertilized experiments. Although the availability of soil N initially increases while thereservoir of soil C decreases, the entire plant–soil system eventually gains a net C due tothe inputs of rhizo-deposits and root biomass.Conversely, the initial effect is affected by N availability [84].3.3. Relationship of Soil Organic Carbon Sequestration with Other Soil Essential ElementsThe outcomes of Grovera et al. [ 84] imply that soil C input is the primary driver ofSCseq throughout plant development, which is affected by N availability and nutrientsrequired for supporting N 2ﬁxation. Artiﬁcial fertilizers do not add OM, but they do carry aC charge and have an effect on soil health. As a result, boosting the combination of biologicalN2ﬁxers and nutrient solubilizers/mobilizers can be a sustainable and cost-effectivetechnique to enhance SCseqin agroecosystems [ 84]. One of the available approaches toincrease soil C, thus improving the quality of the soil and the output of the crops, isto include green manure crops in the conventional cropping system through a rotation(different crops in different years in the same area) and multiple crops (different crops indifferent seasons in the same area within the same year). Crop rotation and multiple cropshave long been known as an effective way to improve soil’s physical properties owing toa reduction in soil erosion, an improvement in soil structure, and enhanced permeability.This practice also enhances soil fertility because of increasing soil microbial activity andSOM content. The green manure crops in the rotations will be useful in different approachesto the soil. The most popular species of green manure crops are legumes, owing to theirunique capability for ﬁxing atmospheric N 2via their root nodules. The legume crop ina speciﬁc cropping system can (1) enhance biodiversity, (2) supply net additions of soilC and N, and (3) maintain soil fertility in many regions of the world [85,86].SOC and N play important roles in the dynamics of plant nutrients and the per-formance of crop yield in different soils [ 87]. Therefore, their soil dynamics are linked.Similar general trends of total C and OC accumulation, degradation, and subsurface trans-port exist because of the unique link between them. Therefore, they always have similarpatterns [88–90] . In the 1950s, most agricultural soils had limited N. Careful N fertilizerapplication can enhance the quality and amount of crop production that can be utilized tocompensate for increased atmospheric CO 2emissions and return assimilated CO 2to theSOC stock throughout the production and turnover of belowground biomass. However,inefﬁcient and excessive use of N fertilizer is not only not cost-effective but also causescontamination of surface and groundwater, soil acidiﬁcation, and increased GHG emis-sions [ 58]. Adding chemical nitrogen reduces the C:N ratio and promotes the growth ofnon-N2-ﬁxing bacteria with labile C. Thus, this low ratio of C:N enhances plant growth,which increases carbon sequestration via plant biomass and rhizodeposition, though non-availability of nutrients other than N may become a restraint over time. Additionally,chemical N does not provide further OM and its production carries a C cost [ 84]. Singhet al. [ 91] reported that soils and attempts at turnover are interlinked and that this ismotivated by microbial biomass. The C:N ratio of crop residues/SOM regulates the soilprocesses. The average C:N ratio of stable forms of SOC, humus, and soil microbial biomass(MB) are about 10 to 12, 10, and 7, respectively. C and nutrients in the MB are alwaysrecycled in the soil and associate with long-term continual variations in SOC. The totalSOC at any speciﬁc time is the net product of the turnover of MB, rate of respiration, andattempts at mineralization. These processes are strongly linked to the microbial metabolismin soil.Lal et al. [ 62] stated that soil carbon sequestration requires other nutrients sinceSOM is built from plant and microorganism residues and these require many elements.On the basis of weight, the C:N ratio of SOM is 12:1, C:P was 50:1, and C:S was 70:1.Thus, to sequester one compendium of C, 83, 20, and 14 kg of N, P , and S, respectively,are required [ 62,92]. Richardson et al. [ 93] also proposed that inorganic nutrients (N),phosphorus (P), and sulphur (S) management is an important perspective for strategiesof building soil C from C-rich crop residues. Additionally, Dignac et al. [ 57] emphasizedSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 14 of 20that when considering practices from the standpoint of C cycling and increased soil Cstorage, the signiﬁcance of its interplays with other nutrient cycles in SOM (i.e., N, P , S, etc.)must not be neglected. In crop residues, there is a very widespread stoichiometric ratioof nutrients:C compared to SOM, which has important implications for the efﬁciency atwhich C is transformed from crop residues to soil C. For example, wheat stubbles containapproximately 17, 2, and 3 parts of N, P , and S per 1000 units of C, as compared to about90, 19, and 14 parts per 1000 units in the soil humus (i.e., ﬁne fraction of SOM). This strongcoupling of nutrients in SOM is a characteristic of soils worldwide regardless of soil type,management history, or geographical location. The stoichiometry of C, N, P , and y inSOM is similar (compared to crop residues) to the nutrient ratios in soil microorganisms(i.e., 250, 49, 26, and 103, 11, 9 parts N, P , and S per 1000 units of C in bacteria and fungi,respectively). This appears to be strongly controlled and relatively constant in differentsoils and ecosystems. Bio-sequestration of C via microbial deposition has also been statedto be a driving technique for long-term C storage in marine and sediment systems [93].3.4. Soil C Accumulation or DepletionCarbon losses are increased owing to decreased plant inputs and increased decom-position and erosion associated with agriculture [ 94]. As mentioned above, the mostimportant factor that determines SOC level is the dynamic balancing between C inputs viathe processes of photosynthesis and deposition, in addition to losing C through respiration,leaching, and erosion [ 49]. De Oca [ 95] attributed the depletion of SOC in agroecosystemscompared to natural ones to smaller organic inputs, greater decomposition rates, alterationsin soil moisture and temperature regimes, and SOC depletion by leaching and soil erosion.In addition, tillage has increased soil carbon losses from 28 to 77% based on climate andsoil type [ 96]. The disintegration of macro-aggregates by tillage into nutrient-poor micro-aggregates and thus release of plant-available nutrients may be one of the interpretationsfor lower OM contents and declined nutrient-supplying efﬁciencies in cultivated soils [ 97].Since most organic C in agricultural soils has been previously depleted, increasing or-ganic C stocks in these soils has been proposed as an important measure to sequesteratmospheric CO 2. It has been estimated that global agricultural soils can sequester about0.4 to 0.9 Pg C year 1[98]. In other words, agricultural soils have the dual long-term effectsof emitting and sequestering [ 99]. A slight modiﬁcation of the fragile equilibrium betweenC input and losses may offset the biological terrestrial carbon sink. However, such smallchanges are difﬁcult to detect because of the high spatial variation in SOC stocks [ 100].On the other hand, the most important processes involved in N loss are leaching [ 101],volatilization [102], uptake, erosion, and denitriﬁcation [101].Maintaining higher soil C stock is becoming more and more signiﬁcant due to itscontribution to agriculture and environment. Naturally, soil has higher C compared to theterrestrial vegetation and atmospheric C together; however, the human disturbances ofsoil hastened the C loss from agricultural soils [ 52]. It has been assessed that cultivatedworld crop soils have lost 41 to 55 Pg C in the past. It has been stated that converting forestlands to agricultural lands reduces the SOC stocks, quickly in the early years and then ata slower rate afterward, reaching a new equilibrium 30 to 50 years later [ 45]. Over time,two contradictory postulations have appeared on the surface in terms of soil C dynamicsin primary agricultural soils. One study proposed that soil C can be enhanced throughreturning additional biomass to the soil due to intensifying cropping systems. Furthermore,this could accelerate C loss owing to exploitive cultivation [52].The SOC level rests on its distribution into different labile stocks variable in theirresidence time. Labile (active) SOC is susceptible to soil management and signiﬁcantlyaffects soil nutrient cycles to maintain the quality and output of the soil. ‘Recalcitrantorganic C (passive pool) resides in the soil system for a longer period, resulting in long-termcarbon sequestration [ 103]. Hence, a good balance between labile and recalcitrant organic Cstocks offers friendly circumstances for soil sustainability and better crop production on along time scale [ 67,103]. Dotaniya et al. [ 13] emphasized that appropriate SOC managementSustainability 2022 ,14, 914 15 of 20is important to sustain soil productivity and protect it from degradation. Thus, organicand inorganic nutrient sources can improve C accumulation ability in agricultural soils.Moreover, the mixture of organic and inorganic materials provides available plant nutrientsthrough the growing period, preserving a good soil environment (physically, chemically,and biologically) and generating favorable functions in the ecosystem [103].Shahid et al. [ 67] stated that active fractions (i.e., microbial biomass C and N, particu-late OC and N, potentially mineralizable C and N, which respond quickly to the change inmanagement practices) can better reﬂect the variations in both soil quality and productivitythrough altering the nutrients dynamic owing to immobilization mineralization processes.The particulate organic carbon (POC) and particulate organic nitrogen (PON) that containOM coarse fractions are intermediate between active and slow fractions of SOC and TNthat change quickly because of management practices. These fractions are possibly moresensitive to these practices than the SOC and TN and are good indications of soil quality,thus inﬂuencing soil functions in particular pathways (such as immobilization mineraliza-tion). Therefore, these fractions of soil may act as markers of upcoming variations in SOCand total N that are presently untraceable. The stock size of a labile fraction attempts tooffer a vision into the results of management procedures that would not be acquired fromtotal SOC studies or total N studies alone. On the other hand, more resistant SOC fractions(humiﬁed) in general have slower turnover periods and therefore long-standing potentialof SCseq [ 67,90]. It has also been found that balanced inorganic fertilizer application with orwithout organic manure application can enhance SOC storage and support soil productivity.Furthermore, fertilizer addition regularly increases soil microbial biomass and changessoil dynamics [67].Soil C is depleted if C output is higher than C input, while soil sequesters C whenC input is higher than C output. Through the photosynthesis process, plants assimilateC, returning some into the atmosphere via respiration. The remaining C that forms planttissues is either consumed by animals or added to the soil after plants die and decompose.SOM is the principal way in which C is stored in the soil. Carbon sequestration can berecognized by many management practices that differ in their capacity to promote soilC storage and provide a major sink of atmospheric CO 2. An increase in the SOM stockby 1 t C ha 1can raise food production by a further 30 to 40 Mt annually in developingnations [ 5,64]. Srinivasarao et al. [ 104] mentioned that the loss of C in the past 1000 years,as a result of soil degradation, represents 16 to 20% of the current global soil C stock of1200 to 1500 Pg to 1 m depth. Additionally, agriculture mechanization has depleted soilC stock by 78 12 Tg since the middle of the 18th century, and the conversion of forestsinto agricultural land has depleted the soil C stock by approximately 22%. Therefore, plansfor the sustainable management of natural resources should recognize the decline in soilquality that negatively affects both food security and environmental quality [48,104,105].Thus, the SOC storage in agricultural soils can be increased directly by increasing OCreturn to soils through changing classical tillage into conservation agriculture, organic andinorganic mulch usage to diminish the loss of nutrients through leaching and volatiliza-tion, cover crops, balanced use of macro-and micro-nutrients, compost application, plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria, biofertilizers, and the variation and diversiﬁcation ofcrop systems [ 106–109]. Additionally, crop residues can be incorporated and degradedarable land can be restored [ 29,98]. Dotaniya et al. [ 13] stated that in India, long-termfertilizer trials showed that the incorporation of nutrient balancing led to the enrichmentof the SOC concentration. Moreover, cereal-based crop systems had lower C content thanlegume-based crop systems. They added that it is clear from these results that SOC storageand dynamics may be affected by land use and management. Conversely, Choudhuryet al. [ 103] stated that the long-standing incorporation of organic and inorganic fertilizerssimpliﬁes carbon sequestration in the soil; however, the degree can differ relying on thetype and character of the organic fertilizers.Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 16 of 204. ConclusionsClimatic variables affect the accessibility and uptake of soil nutrients by plants. Vari-ables such as rising temperatures may inﬂuence the length of the growing season, whichin turn alters the annual and seasonal accessibility of nutrients. Elevated CO 2may ad-versely or positively affect plant availability and uptake. As soil is the largest carbonpool on Earth, it plays an essential role in global C and nutrient cycling. Enhancing soilcarbon storage and sequestration is necessary to improve soil quality and plant nutritionreservoirs and increase productivity, notably under the ongoing and upcoming climatechange impacts. Soil carbon sequestration also contributes to mitigating the effects ofadverse and extreme climatic factors such as rising surface and soil temperature, elevatingCO 2levels, and increasing or decreasing precipitation. Good management practices arethe best-expected method to enhance soil organic carbon accumulation and sequestrationthrough increasing soil carbon inputs (such as plant residues) that outputs (such as de-composition and leaching). Additionally, balanced and integrated fertilizing (organic andinorganic) is linked with enhancing soil carbon sequestration, preserving plant nutrients,and increasing productivity.Future insights: Since most studies focused only on the climatic variables, a better understandingof the combination of effects on the availability and uptake of plant nutrients iscritically needed. In addition, studies on speciﬁc site conditions and the combined effects of soil proper-ties with climatic factors are needed in the future. The effects of climatic factors on the biofortification of some important elements in plantsthat are needed to treat deficiencies in humans should be considered future studies. Moreover, studies on the relationship between plant nutrient availability and foodsecurity under sever climatic conditions should be undertaken.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, H.E.; preparing the outline, writing, and reviewing, H.E.-R. ;writing and reviewing, S.M.; reviewing, F.E., V .D.R., T.M. and S.M. The published version of the workhas been reviewed and approved by all authors. All authors have read and agreed to the publishedversion of the manuscript.Funding: Not applicable.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: All data in this review are available upon reasonable request.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors state that they have no conﬂict of interest.References1. Lotze-Campe, H. Climate Change, Population Growth, and Crop Production: An Overview. In Crop Adaptation to Cli-mate Change , 1st ed.; Yadav, S.S., Redden, R.J., Hatﬁeld, J.L., Lotze-Campen, H., Hall, A.E., Eds.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.:Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011.2. Hossain, M.S.; Arshad, M.; Qian, L.; Zhao, M.; Mehmood, Y.; Kächele, H. Economic impact of climate change on crop farming inBangladesh: An application of Ricardian method. Ecol. Econ. 2019 ,164, 106354. [CrossRef]3. Elbasiouny, H.; Elbanna, B.A.; Al-Najoli, E.; Alsherief, A.; Negm, S.; El-Nour, E.A.; Nofal, A.; Sharabash, S. Agricultural WasteManagement for Climate Change Mitigation: Some Implications to Egypt. In Waste Management in MENA Regions, Springer WaterBook Series ; Negm, A.M., Shareef, N., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020. [CrossRef]4. Elbehiry, F.; Mahmoud, M.A.; Negm, A. Land Use in Egypt’s Coastal Lakes: Opportunities and Challenges. In Egyptian CoastalLakes and Wetlands: Part I—Characteristics and Hydrodynamics ; Negm, A.M., Bek, M.A., Abdel-Fattah, S., Eds.; Springer InternationalPublishing AG: Cham, Switzerland, 2018. [CrossRef]5. Shukla, S.K.; Shee, S.; Maity, S.K.; Solomon, S.; Awasthi, S.K.; Gaur, A.; Pathak, A.D.; Jaiswal, V .P . Soil Carbon Sequestrationand Crop Yields in Rice–Wheat and Sugarcane–Ratoon–Wheat Cropping Systems Through Crop Residue Management andInoculation of Trichoderma viride in Subtropical India. Sugar Tech 2016 ,19, 347–358. [CrossRef]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 17 of 206. Egli, M.; Bösiger, M.; Lamorski, K.; Sławi ´ nski, C.; Plötze, M.; Wiesenberg, G.L.; Tikhomirov, D.; Musso, A.; Hsu, S.-Y.; Raimondi, S.Pedogenesis and carbon sequestration in transformed agricultural soils of Sicily. Geoderma 2021 ,402, 115355. [CrossRef]7. Elbasiouny, H.; Elbehiry, F. Soil Carbon Sequestration for Climate Change Mitigation: Some Implications to Egypt. In ClimateChange Impacts on Agriculture and Food Security in Egypt ; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 151–181. [CrossRef]8. Rajput, V .D.; Chen, Y.; Ayup, M. Effects of high salinity on physiological and anatomical indices in the early stages of Populuseuphratica growth. Russ. J. Plant Physiol. 2015 ,62, 229–236. [CrossRef]9. Elbasiouny, H.; Elbehiry, F. Rice Production in Egypt: The Challenges of Climate Change and Water Deﬁciency. In Climate ChangeImpacts on Agriculture and Food Security in Egypt ; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 295–319. [CrossRef]10. Huang, Y.; Ren, W.; Grove, J.; Poffenbarger, H.; Jacobsen, K.; Tao, B.; Zhu, X.; McNear, D. Assessing synergistic effects of no-tillageand cover crops on soil carbon dynamics in a long-term maize cropping system under climate change. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2020 ,291, 108090. [CrossRef]11. Li, X.; Zhu, W.; Xu, F.; Du, J.; Tian, X.; Shi, J.; Wei, G. Organic amendments affect soil organic carbon sequestration and fractions inﬁelds with long-term contrasting nitrogen applications. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2021 ,322, 107643. [CrossRef]12. Soares, J.C.; Santos, C.S.; Carvalho, S.M.P .; Pintado, M.M.; Vasconcelos, M.W. Preserving the nutritional quality of crop plantsunder a changing climate: Importance and strategies. Plant Soil 2019 ,443, 1–26. [CrossRef]13. Dotaniya, M.L.; Rajendiran, S.; Meena, B.P .; Meena, A.L.; Dotaniya, C.K.; Jat, R.L.; Saha, J.K. Elevated Carbon Dioxide (CO 2) andTemperature vis-a-vis Carbon Sequestration Potential of Global Terrestrial Ecosystem. In Conservation Agriculture ; Bisht, J.K., Ed.;Springer: Singapore, 2016. [CrossRef]14. Gong, H.; Gao, J. Soil and climatic drivers of plant SLA (speciﬁc leaf area). Glob. Ecol. Conserv. 2019 ,20, e00696. [CrossRef]15. Koller, E.K.; Phoenix, G.K. Seasonal dynamics of soil and plant nutrients at three environmentally contrasting sites along asub-Arctic catchment sequence. Polar Biol. 2017 ,40, 1821–1834. [CrossRef]16. Matias, L.; Castro, J.; Zamora, R. Soil-nutrient availability under a global-change scenario in a Mediterranean mountain ecosystem.Glob. Chang. Biol. 2010 ,17, 1646–1657. [CrossRef]17. Arndal, M.F.; Merrild, M.P .; Michelsen, A.; Schmidt, I.K.; Mikkelsen, T.N.; Beier, C. Net root growth and nutrient acquisition inresponse to predicted climate change in two contrasting heathland species. Plant Soil 2013 ,369, 615–629. [CrossRef]18. Pilbeam, D.J. Breeding crops for improved mineral nutrition under climate change conditions. J. Exp. Bot. 2015 ,66, 3511–3521. [CrossRef]19. Alshaal, T.; El-Ramady, H.; Al-Saeedi, A.H.; Shalaby, T.; Elsakhawy, T.; Omara, A.E.-D.; Gad, A.; Hamad, E.; El-Ghamry, A.; Mosa,A.; et al. The Rhizosphere and Plant Nutrition Under Climate Change. In Essential Plant Nutrients ; Naeem, M., Ed.; Springer:Cham, Switzerland, 2017. [CrossRef]20. Hatfield, J.L.; Prueger, J.H. Agroecology: Implications for Plant Response to Climate Change. In Crop Adaptation to Climate Change ,1st ed.; Yadav, S.S., Redden, R.J., Hatfield, J.L., Lotze-Campen, H., Hall, A.E., Eds.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011.21. Sarfraz, R.; Hussain, A.; Sabir, A.; Fekih, I.B.; Ditta, A.; Xing, S. Role of biochar and plant growth promoting rhizobacteria toenhance soil carbon sequestration—A review. Environ. Monit. Assess. 2019 ,191, 251. [CrossRef] [PubMed]22. Brouder, S.M.; Volenec, J.J. Impact of climate change on crop nutrient and water use efﬁciencies. Physiol. Plant. 2008 ,133, 705–724. [CrossRef]23. Bocchiola, D.; Brunetti, L.; Soncini, A.; Polinelli, F.; Gianinetto, M. Impact of climate change on agricultural productivity and foodsecurity in the Himalayas: A case study in Nepal. Agric. Syst. 2019 ,171, 113–125. [CrossRef]24. Amouzou, K.A.; Lamers, J.P .; Naab, J.B.; Borgemeister, C.; Vlek, P .L.; Becker, M. Climate change impact on water- and nitrogen-use efﬁciencies and yields of maize and sorghum in the northern Benin dry savanna, West Africa. Field Crop. Res. 2019 ,235, 104–117. [CrossRef]25. Seneweera, S.; Norton, R.M. Plant Responses to Increased Carbon Dioxide. In Crop Adaptation to Climate Change , 1st ed.; Yadav,S.S., Redden, R.J., Hatﬁeld, J.L., Lotze-Campen, H., Hall, A.E., Eds.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011.26. Taub, D.R.; Wang, X. Why are nitrogen concentrations in plant tissues lower under elevated CO 2? A critical examination of thehypotheses. J. Integr. Plant Biol. 2008 ,50, 1365–1374. [CrossRef] [PubMed]27. McGrath, J.M.; Lobell, D.B. Reduction of transpiration and altered nutrient allocation contribute to nutrient decline of cropsgrown in elevated CO 2concentrations. Plant Cell Environ. 2013 ,36, 697–705. [CrossRef] [PubMed]28. Wang, J.; Zhang, X.; Li, L.; Cheng, K.; Zheng, J.; Zheng, J.; Shen, M.; Liu, X.; Pan, G. Changes in micronutrient availability andplant uptake under simulated climate change in winter wheat ﬁeld. J. Soils Sediments 2016 ,16, 2666–2675. [CrossRef]29. Shahzad, K.; Sintim, H.; Ahmad, F.; Abid, M.; Nasim, W. Importance of Carbon Sequestration in the Context of Climate Change.InBuilding Climate Resilience in Agriculture ; Jatoi, W.N., Mubeen, M., Ahmad, A., Cheema, M.A., Lin, Z., Hashmi, M.Z., Eds.;Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2022. [CrossRef]30. Adavi, Z.; Moradi, R.; Saeidnejad, A.H.; Tadayon, M.R.; Mansouri, H. Assessment of potato response to climate change andadaptation strategies. Sci. Hortic. 2018 ,228, 91–102. [CrossRef]31. Cookson, W.; Osman, M.; Marschner, P .; Abaye, D.; Clark, I.; Murphy, D.; Stockdale, E.; Watson, C. Controls on soil nitrogen cyclingand microbial community composition across land use and incubation temperature. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2007 ,39, 744–756. [CrossRef]32. Rennenberg, H.; Dannenmann, M.; Gessler, A.; Kreuzwieser, J.; Simon, J.; Papen, H. Nitrogen balance in forest soils: Nutritionallimitation of plants under climate change stresses. Plant Biol. 2009 ,11(Suppl. 1), 4–23. [CrossRef] [PubMed]33. Wrage, N.; Chapuis-Lardy, L.; Isselstein, J. Phosphorus, Plant Biodiversity and Climate Change. In Sociology, Organic Farming,Climate Change and Soil Science ; Sustainable Agriculture Reviews 3; Springer: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2009. [CrossRef]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 18 of 2034. Kirschbaum, M.U.F. The temperature dependence of organic-matter decomposition—Still a topic of debate. Soil Biol. Biochem.2006 ,38, 2510–2518. [CrossRef]35. Howden, S.M.; Crimp, S. Regional impacts: Australia. In Crop Adaptation to Climate Change ; Yadav, S.S., Redden, R.J., Hatﬁeld, J.L.,Lotze-Campen, H., Hall, A.E., Eds.; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2011; pp. 143–155.36. Simon, J.; Dannenmann, M.; Pena, R.; Gessler, A.; Rennenberg, H. Nitrogen nutrition of beech forests in a changing climate:Importance of plant-soil-microbe water, carbon, and nitrogen interactions. Plant Soil 2017 ,418, 89–114. [CrossRef]37. Khan, S.; Anwar, S.; Sun, M.; Shaﬁq, F.; Khalilzadeh, R.; Gao, Z.-Q. Characterizing Differences in Soil Water Content and WheatYield in Response to Tillage and Precipitation in the Dry, Normal, and Wet Years at the Loess Plateau. Int. J. Plant Prod. 2021 ,15, 655–668. [CrossRef]38. Rosenblatt, A.E.; Schmitz, O.J. Climate Change, Nutrition, and Bottom-Up and Top-Down Food Web Processes. Trends Ecol. Evol.2016 ,31, 965–975. [CrossRef]39. Jonasson, S.; Michelsen, A.; Schmidt, I.K.; Nielsen, E.V . Responses in microbes and plants to changed temperature, nutrient, andlight regimes in the arctic. Ecology 1999 ,80, 1828–1843. [CrossRef]40. Wang, J.; Li, L.; Lam, S.K.; Zhang, X.; Liu, X.; Pan, G. Changes in nutrient uptake and utilization by rice under simulated climatechange conditions: A 2-year experiment in a paddy ﬁeld. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2018 ,250, 202–208. [CrossRef]41. Avila, J.M.; Gallardo, A.; G ómez-Aparicio, L. Pathogen-induced tree mortality interacts with predicted climate change to alter soilrespiration and nutrient availability in Mediterranean systems. Biogeochemistry 2019 ,142, 53–71. [CrossRef]42. Yang, X.; Zhang, P .; Wei, Z.; Liu, J.; Hu, X.; Liu, F. Effects of elevated CO 2and nitrogen supply on leaf gas exchange, plant waterrelations and nutrient uptake of tomato plants exposed to progressive soil drying. Sci. Hortic. 2021 ,292, 110643. [CrossRef]43. Luo, Y.; Peng, Q.; Li, K.; Gong, Y.; Liu, Y.; Han, W. Patterns of nitrogen and phosphorus stoichiometry among leaf, stem and rootof desert plants and responses to climate and soil factors in Xinjiang, China. Catena 2020 ,199, 105100. [CrossRef]44. Macdonald, C.A.; Anderson, I.C.; Khachane, A.; Singh, B.P .; Barton, C.V .; Duursma, R.A.; Ellsworth, D.S.; Singh, B.K. Plantproductivity is a key driver of soil respiration response to climate change in a nutrient-limited soil. Basic Appl. Ecol. 2020 ,50, 155–168. [CrossRef]45. Benbi, D.K.; Brar, J.S. A 25-year record of carbon sequestration and soil properties in intensive agriculture. Agron. Sustain. Dev.2009 ,29, 257–265. [CrossRef]46. Elbasiouny, H.; Abowaly, M.; Abu Alkheir, A.; Gad, A.-A. Spatial variation of soil carbon and nitrogen pools by using ordinaryKriging method in an area of north Nile Delta, Egypt. Catena 2014 ,113, 70–78. [CrossRef]47. Hsu, C.-C.; Tsai, H.; Huang, W.-S.; Huang, S.-T. Carbon Storage along with Soil Proﬁle: An Example of Soil Chronosequence fromthe Fluvial Terraces on the Pakua Tableland, Taiwan. Land 2021 ,10, 447. [CrossRef]48. Lal, R. Soil Carbon Sequestration Impacts on Global Climate Change and Food Security . Science 2004 ,304, 1623–1627. [CrossRef] [PubMed]49. Liang, F.; Li, J.; Zhang, S.; Gao, H.; Wang, B.; Shi, X.; Huang, S.; Xu, M. Two-decade long fertilization induced changes insubsurface soil organic carbon stock vary with indigenous site characteristics. Geoderma 2018 ,337, 853–862. [CrossRef]50. Cao, X.; Long, H.; Lei, Q.; Wu, S. Estimating Soil Carbon Sequestration Potential in Fine Particles of Top Soils in Hebei Province,China. In Digital Soil Mapping Across Paradigms, Scales and Boundaries ; Zhang, G.-L., Ed.; Springer: Singapore, 2016. [CrossRef]51. Xie, J.; Hou, M.; Zhou, Y.; Wang, R.; Zhang, S.; Yang, X.; Sun, B. Carbon sequestration and mineralization of aggregate-associatedcarbon in an intensively cultivated Anthrosol in north China as affected by long term fertilization. Geoderma 2017 ,296, 1–9. [CrossRef]52. Adhikari, K.R.; Dahal, K.R.; Chen, Z.-S.; Tan, Y.-C.; Lai, J.-S. Rice–wheat cropping system: Tillage, mulch, and nitrogen effects onsoil carbon sequestration and crop productivity. Paddy Water Environ. 2015 ,15, 699–710. [CrossRef]53. Baqir, M.; Shah, A.B.; Kothari, R.; Singh, R.P . Carbon sequestration potential of plantation forestry and improvements in soilnutrient status in a subtropical area of northern India. Environ. Sustain. 2018 ,1, 383–392. [CrossRef]54. Dad, J.M.; Dand, S.A.; Pala, N.A. The effect of bi-culture cover crops on soil quality, carbon sequestration, and growth characteris-tics in apple orchards of North Western Himalayas. Agrofor. Syst. 2021 ,95, 1745–1758. [CrossRef]55. Laamrani, A.; Voroney, P .; Gillespie, A.; Chehbouni, A. Development of a Land Use Carbon Inventory for Agricultural Soils in theCanadian Province of Ontario. Land 2021 ,10, 765. [CrossRef]56. Yadav, G.S.; Lal, R.; Meena, R.S.; Babu, S.; Das, A.; Bhowmik, S.N.; Datta, M.; Layak, J.; Saha, P . Conservation tillage and nutrientmanagement effects on productivity and soil carbon sequestration under double cropping of rice in north eastern region of India.Ecol. Ind. 2019 ,105, 303–315. [CrossRef]57. Dignac, M.-F.; Derrien, D.; Barre, P .; Barot, S.; C écillon, L.; Chenu, C.; Chevallier, T.; Freschet, G.T.; Garnier, P .; Guenet, B.; et al.Increasing soil carbon storage: Mechanisms, effects of agricultural practices and proxies. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2017 ,37, 14. [CrossRef]58. Niu, L.; Manxia, C.; Xiumei, G.; Xiaohua, L.; Hongbo, S.; Zhaopu, L.; Zed, R. Carbon sequestration and Jerusalem artichokebiomass under nitrogen applications in coastal saline zone in the northern region of Jiangsu, China. Sci. Total. Environ. 2016 ,568, 885–890. [CrossRef]59. Laban, P .; Metternicht, G.; Davies, J. Soil Biodiversity and Soil Organic Carbon: Keeping Drylands Alive ; IUCN: Gland, Switzerland,2018; 24p. [CrossRef]60. Goh, K.M. Carbon sequestration and stabilization in soils: Implications for soil productivity and climate change. Soil Sci. PlantNutr. 2004 ,50, 467–476. [CrossRef]61. Eswaran, H.; Berg, E.V .D.; Reich, P . Organic Carbon in Soils of the World. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 1993 ,57, 192–194. [CrossRef]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 19 of 2062. Lal, R.; Follett, R.F.; Stewart, B.A.; Kimble, J.M. Soil carbon sequestration to mitigate climate change and advance food security.Soil Sci. 2007 ,172, 943–956. [CrossRef]63. Stout, B.; Lal, R.; Monger, C. Carbon capture and sequestration: The roles of agriculture and soils. Int. J. Agric. Biol. Eng. 2016 ,9, 1–8.64. Lal, R. Enhancing crop yields in the developing countries through restoration of the soil organic carbon pool in agricultural lands.Land Degrad. Dev. 2005 ,17, 197–209. [CrossRef]65. Yadav, G.S.; Das, A.; Babu, S.; Mohapatra, K.P .; Lal, R.; Rajkhowa, D. Potential of conservation tillage and altered land conﬁgurationto improve soil properties, carbon sequestration and productivity of maize based cropping system in eastern Himalayas, India.Int. Soil Water Conserv. Res. 2021 ,9, 279–290. [CrossRef]66. Fan, H.-Z.; Chen, Q.-R.; Qin, Y.-S.; Chen, K.; Tu, S.-H.; Xu, M.-G.; Zhang, W.-J. Soil carbon sequestration under long-termrice-based cropping systems of purple soil in Southwest China. J. Integr. Agric. 2015 ,14, 2417–2425. [CrossRef]67. Shahid, M.; Nayak, A.K.; Puree, C.; Tripathi, R.; Lal, B.; Gautam, P .; Bhattacharyya, P .; Mohanty, S.; Kumar, A.; Panda, B.B.; et al.Carbon and nitrogen fractions and stocks under 41 years of chemical and organic fertilization in a sub-humid tropical rice soil.Soil Tillage Res. 2017 ,170, 136–146. [CrossRef]68. Meena, R.S.; Sandeep, K.S.; Yadav, G.S. Soil Carbon Sequestration in Crop Production. In Nutrient Dynamics for Sustainable CropProduction ; Meena, R.S., Ed.; Springer: Singapore, 2020; pp. 1–39. [CrossRef]69. Liang, C.; Zhu, X. The soil Microbial Carbon Pump as a new concept for terrestrial carbon sequestration. Sci. China Earth Sci.2021 ,64, 545–558. [CrossRef]70. Feng, Q.; An, C.; Chen, Z.; Wang, Z. Can deep tillage enhance carbon sequestration in soils? A meta-analysis towards GHGmitigation and sustainable agricultural management. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2020 ,133, 110293. [CrossRef]71. Crystal-Ornelas, R.; Thapa, R.; Tully, K.L. Soil organic carbon is affected by organic amendments, conservation tillage, and covercropping in organic farming systems: A meta-analysis. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2021 ,312, 107356. [CrossRef]72. Kumar, N.; Nath, C.; Hazra, K.; Das, K.; Venkatesh, M.; Singh, M.; Singh, S.; Praharaj, C.; Singh, N. Impact of zero-tillresidue management and crop diversiﬁcation with legumes on soil aggregation and carbon sequestration. Soil Tillage Res. 2019 ,189, 158–167. [CrossRef]73. Nath, C.; Kumar, N.; Das, K.; Hazra, K.; Praharaj, C.; Singh, N. Impact of variable tillage based residue management and legumebased cropping for seven years on enzymes activity, soil quality index and crop productivity in rice ecology. Environ. Sustain.Indic. 2021 ,10, 100107. [CrossRef]74. Kumari, R.; Kundu, M.; Das, A.; Rakshit, R.; Sahay, S.; Sengupta, S.; Ahmad, F. Long-Term Integrated Nutrient ManagementImproves Carbon Stock and Fruit Yield in a Subtropical Mango ( Mangifera indica L.) Orchard. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2019 ,20, 725–737. [CrossRef]75. Hazra, K.K.; Nath, C.P .; Singh, U.; Praharaj, C.S.; Kumar, N.; Singh, S.S.; Singh, N.P . Diversiﬁcation of maize-wheat croppingsystem with legumes and integrated nutrient management increases soil aggregation and carbon sequestration. Geoderma 2019 ,353, 308–319. [CrossRef]76. Chandel, S.; Datta, A.; Yadav, R.K.; Dheri, G.S. Does Saline Water Irrigation Inﬂuence Soil Carbon Pools and Nutrient Distributionin Soil under Seed Spices? J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2021 ,21, 949–966. [CrossRef]77. Hübner, R.; Kühnel, A.; Lu, J.; Dettmann, H.; Wang, W.; Wiesmeier, M. Soil carbon sequestration by agroforestry systems in China:A meta-analysis. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2021 ,315, 107437. [CrossRef]78. Mayer, S.; Wiesmeier, M.; Sakamoto, E.; Hübner, R.; Cardinael, R.; Kühnel, A.; Kögel-Knabner, I. Soil organic carbon sequestrationin temperate agroforestry systems—A meta-analysis. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2021 ,323, 107689. [CrossRef]79. Madigan, A.P .; Zimmermann, J.; Krol, D.J.; Williams, M.; Jones, M.B. Full Inversion Tillage (FIT) during pasture renewal as apotential management strategy for enhanced carbon sequestration and storage in Irish grassland soils. Sci. Total Environ. 2021 ,805, 150342. [CrossRef]80. Shi, S.; Peng, C.; Wang, M.; Zhu, Q.; Yang, G.; Yang, Y.; Xi, T.; Zhang, T. A global meta-analysis of changes in soil carbon, nitrogen,phosphorus and sulfur, and stoichiometric shifts after forestation. Plant Soil 2016 ,407, 323–340. [CrossRef]81. Pimentel, D.; Burgess, M. Maintaining sustainable and environmentally friendly fresh produce production in the context ofclimate change. In Global Safety of Fresh Produce ; Woodhead Publishing: Sawston, UK, 2014; pp. 133–139. [CrossRef]82. Rice, C. Carbon Cycle in Soils | Dynamics and Management. Encycl. Soils Environ. 2005 , 164–170. [CrossRef]83. Powlson, D.; Cai, Z.; Lemanceau, P . 7 Soil Carbon Dynamics and Nutrient Cycling. Soil Carbon Sci. Manag. Policy Mult. Beneﬁts2014 ,71, 98.84. Grover, M.; Maheswari, M.; Desai, S.; Gopinath, K.; Venkateswarlu, B. Elevated CO 2: Plant associated microorganisms and carbonsequestration. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2015 ,95, 73–85. [CrossRef]85. Sánchez-Navarro, V .; Zornoza, R.; Faz, A.; Fern ández, J.A. Comparing legumes for use in multiple cropping to enhancesoil organic carbon, soil fertility, aggregates stability and vegetables yields under semiarid conditions. Sci. Hortic. 2018 ,246, 835–841. [CrossRef]86. Zhang, D.; Yao, P .; Zhao, N.; Cao, W.; Zhang, S.; Li, Y.; Huang, D.; Zhai, B.; Wang, Z.; Gao, Y. Building up the soil carbon pool viathe cultivation of green manure crops in the Loess Plateau of China. Geoderma 2018 ,337, 425–433. [CrossRef]87. Meena, A.L.; Jha, P .; Dotaniya, M.L.; Kumar, B.; Meena, B.P .; Jat, R.L. Carbon, Nitrogen and Phosphorus Mineralization as Influencedby Type of Organic Residues and Soil Contact Variation in Vertisol of Central India. Agric. Res. 2019 ,9, 232–240. [CrossRef]Sustainability 2022 ,14, 914 20 of 2088. Nieder, R.; Benbi, D.K. Carbon and Nitrogen in the Terrestrial Environment ; Springer Science & Business Media: Dordrecht, TheNetherlands, 2008; 432p. [CrossRef]89. Elbasiouny, H.; Abowaly, M.; Gad, A.; Abu_Alkheir, A.; Elbehiry, F. Restoration and sequestration of carbon and nitrogen in thedegraded northern coastal area in Nile Delta, Egypt for climate change mitigation. J. Coast. Conserv. 2016 ,21, 105–114. [CrossRef]90. Elbasiouny, H.; Elbehiry, F. Soil carbon and nitrogen stocks and fractions for improving soil quality and mitigating climate change.Egypt. J. Soil Sci. 2019 ,59, 131–144. [CrossRef]91. Singh, G.; Sangwan, S.; Narwal, E.; Annapurna, K. Microbial Proteins and Soil Carbon Sequestration. In Adaptive Soil Management:From Theory to Practices ; Rakshit, A., Ed.; Springer: Singapore, 2017; pp. 131–139. [CrossRef]92. Hines, F.L. Nitrogen, sulfur, and phosphorus and the sequestering of carbon. In Soil Processes and the Carbon Cycle ; Lal, R., Kimble,J.M., Follett, R.F., Stewart, B.A., Eds.; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 1997; pp. 315–319.93. E Richardson, A.; A Kirkby, C.; Banerjee, S.; Kirkegaard, J. The inorganic nutrient cost of building soil carbon. Carbon Manag.2014 ,5, 265–268. [CrossRef]94. Knops, J.M.; Tilman, D. Dynamics of soil nitrogen and carbon accumulation for 61 years after agricultural abandonment. Ecology2000 ,81, 88–98. [CrossRef]95. de Oca, P .C.M. Effect of Land Use, Climate and Soil Structure on Soil Organic Carbon in Costa Rican Ecoregions. Ph.D. Thesis,The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA, 2009.96. Bouajila, A.; Gallali, T. Land use effect on soil and particulate organic carbon, and aggregate stability in some soils in Tunisia. Afr.J. Agric. Res. 2010 ,5, 764–774.97. Cambardella, C.A.; Elliott, E.T. Particulate Soil Organic-Matter Changes across a Grassland Cultivation Sequence. Soil Sci. Soc.Am. J. 1992 ,56, 777–783. [CrossRef]98. Su, Y.Z.; Liu, W.J.; Yang, R.; Chang, X.X. Changes in Soil Aggregate, Carbon, and Nitrogen Storages Following the Conversion ofCropland to Alfalfa Forage Land in the Marginal Oasis of Northwest China. Environ. Manag. 2009 ,43, 1061–1070. [CrossRef]99. Wu, H.; Tang, J.; Huang, H.; Chen, W.; Meng, Y. Net Carbon Sequestration Performance of Cropland Use in China’s PrincipalGrain-Producing Area: An Evaluation and Spatiotemporal Divergence. Land 2021 ,10, 714. [CrossRef]100. Don, A.; Schumacher, J.; Scherer-Lorenzen, M.; Scholten, T.; Schulze, E.-D. Spatial and vertical variation of soil carbon at twograssland sites—Implications for measuring soil carbon stocks. Geoderma 2007 ,141, 272–282. [CrossRef]101. Zapata, F. Introduction to nitrogen management in agricultural systems. In Guidelines on Nitrogen Management in AgriculturalSystems ; International Atomic Energy Agency: Seibersdorf, Austria, 2008; p. 1.102. Qadir, M.; Noble, A.D.; Schubert, S.; Thomas, R.T.; Arslan, A. Sodicity-induced land degradation and its sustainable management:Problems and prospects. Land Degrad. Dev. 2006 ,17, 661–676. [CrossRef]103. Choudhury, S.G.; Yaduvanshi, N.P .S.; Chaudhari, S.K.; Sharma, D.R.; Nayak, D.C.; Singh, S.K. Effect of nutrient management onsoil organic carbon sequestration, fertility, and productivity under rice-wheat cropping system in semi-reclaimed sodic soils ofNorth India. Environ. Monit. Assess. 2018 ,190, 117. [CrossRef] [PubMed]104. Srinivasarao, C.; Lal, R.; Kundu, S.; Thakur, P .B. Conservation Agriculture and Soil Carbon Sequestration. In ConservationAgriculture ; Farooq, M., Siddique, K.H.M., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2015. [CrossRef]105. Lal, R. Residue management, conservation tillage and soil restoration for mitigating greenhouse effect by CO 2enrichment. SoilTillage Res. 1997 ,43, 81–107. [CrossRef]106. Upadhyay, S.K.; Singh, D.P . Effect of salt-tolerant plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria on wheat plants and soil health in asaline environment. Plant Biol. 2014 ,17, 288–293. [CrossRef]107. Mahmud, A.A.; Upadhyay, S.K.; Srivastava, A.K.; Bhojiya, A.A. Biofertilizers: A Nexus between soil fertility and crop productivityunder abiotic stress. Curr. Res. Environ. Sustain. 2021 ,3, 100063. [CrossRef]108. Upadhyay, S.K.; Saxena, A.K.; Singh, J.S.; Singh, D.P . Impact of Native ST-PGPR ( Bacillus pumilus ; EU927414) on PGP Traits,Antioxidants Activities, Wheat Plant Growth and Yield under Salinity. Clim. Chang. Environ. Sustain. 2019 ,7, 157. [CrossRef]109. Upadhyay, S.K.; Edrisi, S.A. Developing sustainable measures to restore ﬂy ash contaminated lands: Current challenges andfuture prospects. Land Degrad. Dev. 2021 ,32, 4817–4831. [CrossRef]