Plants provide a multitude of niches for the growth and proliferation of a diversity of microorganisms, includ-ing bacteria, fungi, protists, nematodes and viruses (the plant microbiota). These microorganisms can form complex co-  associations with plants and have important roles in promoting the productivity and health of the plant in natural environments. It has been proposed1 that plants and the associated microbiota form a ‘ holobiont ’,  whereby evolutionary selection between plants and microorganisms contributes to the overall stability of the system, but this concept has yet to be conclusively demonstrated. Complex plant microbial communities contain taxa from diverse phyla and have deep branch-ing lineages at lower phylogenetic resolution. In recent years, culture-  independent high-  throughput sequencing has greatly expanded the repertoire of micro  organisms known to reside in and on plants as well as in the sur -rounding environment2–19. Many studies have noted the presence of a subset of microbial lineages, designated the ‘ core microbiota ’ , that reproducibly associates with a given host across a wide range of environments7,12,13,18,20. Among the plant- associated microbiota, bacteria and to lesser extent fungi are the most dominant forms and are relatively well- studied compared with other members of the community, but other groups — such as archaea, algae, nematodes and protists — also have important roles in plant functioning and health21,22. Genome- wide association studies  (GW ASs) and metagenome- wide association studies have linked individual microbial taxa and genes to plant colonization, physiology and fitness16–18 (Box  1, Supplementary text S1). Genomics and multi-‘omics’  have enabled the identification and characterization of genes that govern plant interactions with the associated microbiomes23–26, thus increasing our understanding of how microorganisms adapt to the plant environment. Numerous genes involved in plant adaptation have been identified that are consist-ent across phylogenetically diverse bacterial taxa, and a few genes related to plant colonization are even shared with plant-  associated eukaryotes23. The products of these shared genes mimic plant proteins and function as decoys to allow the microbiota to outcompete plant defences for efficient colonization. However, the molec-ular mechanisms that govern plant–microorganism interactions at a community level are still not well understood.The members of a plant microbiota comprise benefi-cial, neutral and pathogenic microorganisms. Microbial communities associated with their hosts have been shown to promote plant growth, nutrient uptake and pathogen resistance27–31. Although individual members of plant- associated microbial communities can possess certain beneficial traits30,31, the manifestation of a trait in the community is an emergent property that cannot be predicted from the individual members. For example, Pseudomonas  spp. can suppress plant pathogens through antibiosis and competition, yet overall soil disease sup-pressiveness is an emergent property that depends on multiple factors, including the population dynamics of the pathogen, the genetic backgrounds of both the path-ogen and host, biotic and abiotic conditions, and the composition and diversity of the plant microbiota32–34. The benefits conferred by the microorganisms to their host plants can be direct, including transformation and translocation of essential nutrients in the soil to make them available to plants (for example, nitrogen fixation),  HolobiontA plant and the members  of its associated microbiota considered as a single entity; this represents the ‘unit of selection’ at which plant–microbiome interactions have probably co- evolved in order  to maintain host functionality  and fitness over ecological and even evolutionary timescales.Plant–microbiome interactions: from community assembly to plant healthPankaj T rivedi  1 ✉, Jan E. Leach1, Susannah G. T ringe  2, T ongmin Sa  3 and Brajesh K. Singh  4,5Abstract | Healthy plants host diverse but taxonomically structured communities of microorganisms, the plant microbiota, that colonize every accessible plant tissue. Plant- associated microbiomes confer fitness advantages to the plant host, including growth promotion, nutrient uptake, stress tolerance and resistance to pathogens. In this Review, we explore how plant microbiome research has unravelled the complex network of genetic, biochemical, physical and metabolic interactions among the plant, the associated microbial communities and the environment. We also discuss  how those interactions shape the assembly of plant- associated microbiomes and modulate their beneficial traits, such as nutrient acquisition and plant health, in addition to highlighting knowledge gaps and future directions.1Microbiome Network and Department of Agricultural Biology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins,  CO, USA.2Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Berkeley, CA, USA.3Department of Environmental and Biological Chemistry, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju, Republic of Korea.4Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, Western Sydney University, Penrith South, NSW, Australia.5Global Centre for Land Based Innovation, Western Sydney University, Penrith South, NSW, Australia.✉e- mail: Pankaj.trivedi@colostate.eduhttps://doi.org/10.1038/ s41579-020-0412-1REVIEWSNATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGy  volume 18 | November 2020 | 607mitigation of environmental stresses (such as drought) and protection from plant pathogens through com-petition, antibiosis and the production of hydrolytic enzymes27,29–31. By contrast, the benefits can also be indirect, through enhancement of a plant’s resistance responses28. Because several plant traits are co- regulated by the plant- associated microbiome, there is an emerg-ing paradigm in which interactions between plants and their associated microbiome should not be considered  as inherently either beneficial or deleterious, but rather as  means to generate new phenotypes with increased fit-ness under distinct environmental conditions35. The rational design and application of synthetic communities  (SynComs) of microorganisms with broad, persistent and durable plant- growth- promoting traits have the potential to translate basic scientific findings into appli-cations in either greenhouse or field settings ( Box  2, Supplementary text S2)14,33,36–39.One key finding is that plant- associated microbial communities do not represent random assemblages, but instead are structured by general rules for community assembly and show a defined phylogenetic organization40 (Box  1, Supplementary text S1). Their assembly is gov-erned by complex interactions among microorgan-isms, their plant host and the environment, although the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. New insights into these complex interactions will help advance our understanding of the evolutionary and eco-logical processes that govern community assembly and will guide translational research to improve plant fitness and productivity (Box  2, Box  3, Supplementary text S2). To achieve a more comprehensive understanding, it will be important first to characterize the mechanisms  that drive the assembly of plant- associated micro  biomes (Supplementary text S1). Second, the biochemical  and genetic features of metabolic microorganism–microorganism and host–microorganism interactions that result in beneficial ecological outcomes need to be identified. Such data will inform the design and con-struction of functional microbial systems de novo that are based on predictive models of plant–microbiome interactions. Furthermore, the development of microbial inoculants, signalling compounds and other tools will enhance microbiome function in the agricultural setting.In this Review, we explore the current knowledge of the plant microbiome at the community level. In par -ticular, by drawing from forward genetic approaches and comparative genome and computational analyses of large plant genomic and metagenomic datasets, we discuss the current understanding of the composition, assembly and dynamics of plant- associated microbial communities and the host functions they provide.The plant microbiomeComposition of plant- associated microbiota. The rel -ative abundance profiles of the major bacterial groups are similar in bulk soil and in the rhizosphere , with a slight increment in the bacteria belonging to phy-lum Proteobacteria in the rhizosphere8–11,13 (FiG.  1). Community composition varies significantly between the rhizosphere, endophytes  and the phyllosphere . Plant endophytic communities are frequently enriched in members of the Proteobacteria and Firmicutes (both ∼twofold or higher in relative abundance in the endo-phytic community than in the rhizosphere) and to a lesser extent in Bacteroidetes; they are depleted in mem-bers of the Acidobacteria, Planctomycetes, Chloroflexi and Verrucomicrobia (>twofold lower in relative abundance in the endophytic community than in the rhizosphere)8–11,13 (FiG.  1). Such enrichment of specific bacterial taxa is consistent even in soils that are dom-inated by other taxa (for example, in soils dominated by Acidobacteria). The phyllosphere community mainly comprises bacteria belonging to phylum Proteobacteria and to the Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Actinomycetes, where members of phylum Proteobacteria constitute ~50% of the community composition (FiG.  1). The vast diversity of fungi that colonize both aboveground and belowground plant tissues mainly belong to the phyla Ascomycota and Basidiomycota9–11,13,15,16,19 (FiG.  1). Although arbuscular fungi (phylum Glomeromycota) and ectomycorrhizal fungi are well- studied, these groups represent only minor diversity among fungal communi -ties from roots9–11,13. The ‘winnowing’ of many bacterial Box 1 | Host and environmental factorsecological theories suggest that the plant- associated microbiome is shaped by complex interactions among the host, microorganisms and the environment. Genome- wide association studies have shown that the host genome does influence microbiome composition, and many heritable taxa belong to the core microbiome, which  suggests positive feedback from the plant microbiome over evolutionary timescales.  Several quantitative trait loci associated with biotic and abiotic stress adaptation or morphological and physiological traits have been identified that underlie variation  in the microbiome traits, species richness and community structure in roots and phyllosphere. metabolic diversification of root exudates within the plant kingdom  may provide a basis for communication and recognition that directs the assembly  and maintenance of a distinct microbiota tailored to the needs of the host115, 127– 129. Comparative genomics and multi-‘omics’- based analysis has demonstrated that metabolic synchronization between plant exudation traits and the microbial substrate’s utilization traits results in the predictable temporal patterns of microbial community assembly observed in the rhizospheres of different plant species102, 127. Interplay between the microbiome, defence mechanisms (for example, cell wall and cuticle) and multilayered surveillance systems (involving pattern recognition receptors (Prrs)  and hormones) has a critical role in maintaining microbial homeostasis, by activating either symbiotic responses that promote microbial colonization or immune responses that limit it. For example, diversification of microorganism- associated molecular patterns (mAmPs) and their Prrs in different hosts can have a fundamental role in the evasion  of mAmP- triggered immunity surveillance, thus enabling the assembly of distinct plant- associated microbial communities in natural plant populations in response to local environments130, 131. Plants also recruit a ‘stress microbiome’ that provides protection against various abiotic or biotic stresses. Selective enrichment of the stress- tolerant microbiome is driven by differences in plant metabolism and immune- associated traits107, 128. This reinforces the functional links between immunity and nutrition and suggests that plants may repurpose the same stress pathways to effectively respond  to both biotic and abiotic stresses. Changes in the microbial seed banks in bulk soil with long- term intensive crop management practices such as heavy fertilization132, tillage133 or organic farming134 affect the assemblages of the plant- associated microbiome. Agriculture intensification decreases network connectivity and the abundance of keystone taxa, which suggests that intensively farmed systems are less resilient to environmental stresses than are those managed by low- intensity practices such as organic farming134, 135. Given the diversity of microorganisms that colonize plants, an emerging focus in the field of plant microbiomes is the role of multikingdom interactions in shaping microbial communities. Although more work is needed to understand how bacterial diversity is influenced by microeukaryotes , data suggest that multitrophic network stability is highly dependent on microbial hubs that transmit effects to the microbial community via microorganism–microorganism interactions13,39,62.Core microbiotaThe group of microorganisms commonly found within  a microbiota; recurrence  of an association between microorganisms is used  as the criterion to select  the microorganisms that potentially provide critical functions within the habitat  in which they are found.Genome- wide association studies(GWASs). A method to survey entire genomes of the genetic variants of many individuals  for genetic polymorphisms, single- nucleotide polymorphisms, that  are associated with a  particular trait.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews608 | November 2020 | volume 18 and fungal genotypes to only a few successful coloniz-ers could be explained in part by plant–microbiome co-evolution12; however, niche adaptation may also have a major role in the selective filtering and recruitment of different microorganisms13,14,22,41,42. These successful col -onizers inhabiting the same host niche can either com-pete for the available resources or form stable co- existing  communities through mutual cooperation.Determinants of the bacterial and fungal commu-nity composition at the genus and species levels include host compartment, environmental factors and host genotype13,43,44 (Box  1, Supplementary text S1). The rela-tive importance of genotypes in shaping the micro  biota composition in the phyllosphere declines over time, which suggests robust habitat selection of these commu -nities over relatively short plant- host timescales44. Fungal establishment in the rhizosphere and on plant roots seems to be more affected by stochastic variations and to respond differently to environmental factors than is true for bacteria9–11,13. There are clear differences among the microbial communities in different plant compart-ments (the rhizosphere, root endosphere, phyllosphere and the bulk and root-  zone soils), which indicates that the plant compartment is a major selective force  that shapes the composition of plant- associated micro-biota (FiG.  1). A rapid loss of diversity from soil to root and then to shoot and flower indicates the increasing influence of host- specific factors at the root–soil and root–shoot interfaces. The components of the rhizo-sphere at coarse phylogenetic levels (for example, the phylum and family levels) for various plant species (for example, citrus, barley, maize, sugarcane, Arabidopsis thaliana  and rice) under field conditions are similar, regardless of their geographical source location2–19. This remarkable similarity suggests that the plant traits that shape the rhizosphere compartment are themselves uncorrelated with host phylogeny. By contrast, root endophytes tend to be phylogenetically clustered, which indicates the co- existence of closely related microorgan-isms, probably owing to the greater influence of the host plant on the assembly of the endosphere microbiome. Consistent with diversity, microbial network complexity decreases from the soil to endosphere compartments39.The inoculum source of the aboveground microbiota is more variable, owing to their open nature and rap-idly fluctuating environmental conditions. The mode of transmission probably involves transfer by aerosols, insects, soil, pollen and/or migration via other plant tissues3,41,42. Although the assemblies of root- associated bacteria and fungi differ substantially from the above-ground communities, both represent a subset of the microbiota derived from soil communities and enriched in different plant- associated niches, which suggests that soil functions as a common reservoir for both belowground and aboveground plant microbiota9–11,13. However, there is smaller overlap between the fungal community of aerial plant tissues and soil than is true for bacteria, which suggests that other sources are important reservoirs for the phyllosphere fungal community13. The host’s genetic control of the aboveground microbiota is greater than for the root or rhizosphere microbiota17; however, the rapidly fluctuating environmental con-ditions aboveground also have an important role, and only a few microbial groups of the microbiota that have adapted to harsh environments will flourish.In addition to the role of bacterial and fungal com -munities, soil and plant processes are directly influ -enced by other organisms, including viruses, archaea, nematodes and protists (Supplementary text S1).  Plant- associated archaeal taxa primarily belong to the phyla Thaumarchaeota, Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota22,43,45,46. Although they are consistent members of the plant- associated community, we have little understanding of the contribution of archaeal communities to host performance43,45,46. Recent studies have demonstrated that the plant- associated archaeal community is highly diverse46,47 and niche specific (that is, distinct for different parts of the plant)47, and that distinct archaeal members are plant specific46,47. Plant- associated archaeal communities possess the abil-ity to degrade glycogen, which is commonly stored and exuded by fungi46,47. This suggests a possible interaction between these different groups in the plant environ-ment. Metagenomic studies have identified functional genes involved in stress tolerance and nutrient cycling in plant- associated archaeal communities46,47.Multi-‘omics’An approach (also known as integrative omics) to combine sets of different omic groups — such as the genome,  proteome, transcriptome  and metabolome — to study biological entities  in a concerted way.MicroeukaryotesAny microscopic eukaryotes, mainly protists, fungi, nematodes and small zooplankton.Synthetic communities(SynComs). Communities that comprise individually isolated microorganisms for controlled studies of microbial communities.Box 2 | Microbiome engineering using synthetic microbial communitiesmicroorganisms have long been applied as inoculants for biocontrol or biostimulation; however, their field efficacy varies with the climate, soil type and other environmental factors. In many cases, these products are single isolates from a different environment that probably cannot compete with the indigenous microbiome. The highly inconsistent performance of microbial inoculants suggests that the functionality and persistence of microorganisms are dependent on interactions with the environment as well as with other microorganisms within a community. To effectively harness the microbiome requires new approaches that recognize that microorganisms living in natural and managed systems typically are members of multispecies communities. explicit consideration of fundamental ecological processes for the development of complex microbial communities is in its infancy but is critical to the rational design and manipulation of microbiomes in agricultural systems. In recent years, synthetic microbial communities (SynComs) of varied complexity have been constructed using bottom- up combinations and have been applied to plants as a means to study various aspects of plant microbiome interactions, including elucidation of the specific mechanisms that drive community assembly and the interactions among different members98. It is clear that there will not be a ‘one size fits all’ SynComs, and therefore different strategies  are being explored in order to select the members of SynComs for reconstitution experiments98. Selection for core functional versus core taxonomic microbial members in SynComs has been emphasized20. Within this concept, functional keystone species can be predicted through topological networks derived from interactions and through metabolic models. This approach provides a pathway to maximize SynCom persistence and trait expression success in natural settings, by identifying possible points of control for manipulating microbial diversity and microorganism–host interactions. It should be noted that interaction networks and metabolic models are predictions that are often based on correlations and in silico- inferred assumptions. SynComs provide the opportunity to validate these predictions and correlations experimentally and have emerged as an important tool to demonstrate their applicability in an agricultural context. Individual microbial members can be cultured using high- throughput platforms and characterized through genomic, metabolic and physiological analysis. Standardized fabricated ecosystems or microfluidic platforms can be used for reproducible interrogation of beneficial traits. SynComs with different complexities can be designed through predictive modelling that evaluates trait redundancy, dominance, modularity, interactions and assembly. Automated monitoring of the plant response and microbial community structures after the application of SynComs can be achieved by a variety  of sensors (including those in drones) together with mobile DNA sequencers. Further integration of microbiome–phenome–environment datasets could forecast microbial dynamics and enable SynCom applications to be scaled up in smart farming systems.NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 609Viruses play a critical part in bacterial community assembly and turnover in the soil, but their function in plant- associated environments is not completely understood48. A recent report demonstrated that in soils, viruses affect both the microbiome structure (top- down control, inferred from lysis- dominant microbial members) and function (bottom- up con-trol, inferred from the carriage of auxiliary metabolic genes)49. Experimental studies have demonstrated that natural phage communities influence the assembly of phyllosphere communities50. Similarly, protists and nematodes greatly contribute to microbiome diversity, and together with other microorganisms, they affect soil–plant processes and ecosystem functioning51–53. Protists may control bacterial and fungal community assembly by modulating predator–prey relationships at different trophic levels54. Within protists, most oomy-cete species that have been described so far are harmful plant pathogens (for example, Pythium , Phytophthora , Peronospora  and Albugo  species)55. Although Albugo  spp. are plant pathogens, members of this obligate biotrophic genus frequently occur on asymptomatic Brassicaceae plants, which suggests a role for environmental factors in triggering the development of symptoms56. Also closely related, non- pathogenic oomycetes can have posi-tive effects on plant growth57,58. A study in A. thaliana  observed that the phenotypic effects of oomycetes vary substantially in the presence and absence of bacterial communities39.Core and hub microbiota. The plant core microbiota consists of members of the microbial community that are persistent and are ubiquitous in almost all the communities associated with a particular host1,59,60. The core microbiota contains key microbial taxa that carry genes with functions that are essential for host fitness1,20,59,60. Many members of the core microbiota of different plant species, such as barley, rice, sugarcane, grapevine, citrus, soybean and A. thaliana , are com-mon at the genus level (for example, Pseudomonas , Agrobacterium , Methylobacterium , Sphingomonas , Erwinia , Cladosporium , Coniothyrium , Resinicium  and Fusarium ). This suggests that co-  occurring members of the core microbiota are selectively recruited and enriched in parallel and are well adapted to life on and/or inside plant tissues. A core archaeome for plants growing in alpine bog46 and for arugula (Eruca sativa  Mill.)47 has recently been reported. Microbial families belonging to Rhizobiales and Pseudomonadales are not only part of the core microbiota (5–17% mean relative abundance)61 but also represent a universal core plant microbiome. The community composition of these orders remains similar in different plant- associated niches, indicating a conserved adaptation to the plant environment61. Multiple members affiliated with these core bacterial genera are known to positively influence plant growth through the production of growth- regulating hor -mones, nutrient mobilization and/or protecting plants from biotic or abiotic stresses27–31. The identification of a co- occurring core of plant- associated microorganisms also provides a useful starting point for studies of how to build SynComs to manipulate plant–microbiome interactions for increased growth and productivity (Supplementary text S2).Within the core microbiota, a few members, such as ‘hub microorganisms ’ , can influence the community structure through strong biotic interactions with the host or with other microbial species, rather than simply by their own high abundance13,18,62,63. These hub species may represent keystone species  that can exert strong direct and indirect effects on microbiome assembly and that function as mediators between the plant and its associated microbiome. It must be noted that the co- occurrence network approaches generally used to identify hub microorganisms may be insufficient for interpreting species interactions and do not indicate causal relationships64. However, elucidating hub micro-organisms through co- occurrence networks provides an opportunity to test the causal relationships of hub species with other species and to understand how the ‘keystone behaviour’ of identified hub species can be experimentally validated. Hub microorganisms have a regulatory effect on the network of microbial inter -actions, as their removal results in the loss of interac-tions. For example, Albugo laibachii  and Dioszegia  spp. have been identified62 as highly interactive hubs in the phyllosphere of A. thaliana . Through these hubs, host plants selectively influence the structure of their associated microbiota by modulating microorganism–microorganism interactions and changing host fitness. Variation of two hub microorganisms had a significant effect on the assembly of the microbiome, and this influ-ence was independent from external factors such as loca-tion and sampling time62. Host genomic regions involved in carbohydrate metabolism and stress responses con-trol the abundance of hub microorganisms18. It has been postulated that hub microorganisms have important roles in organizing the plant- associated microbiome as a network, via selective assembly and recruitment, Box 3 | Trait-based framework to understand plant–microbiome interactionsIt is intuitive and generally accepted that the functional traits conferred by microbiomes are more informative than taxonomic information, as we are more interested in  ‘what they are doing (or can do)’ than in ‘who is there’. However, to date, most plant microbiome studies in the field have focused on community structure rather than function. There are strong indications that plants select for traits rather than taxonomy, as many functions provided by the microbiome are a part of the ‘accessory genome’  and are discontinuously distributed across taxonomies. Phenotyping the functional potential of a microbial community could provide comprehensive information on the possible mechanisms driving plant–microbiome interactions and therefore could be a powerful approach to understanding and modelling the microbial- community functions that support plant growth. The association of genetic variants with specific microbial genes rather than with phylogenetic identity will provide meaningful insight into the possible mechanisms underlying multifaceted plant–microbiome interactions. Defining linkages between plant phenotypes and microbiome functions through genome- wide association studies could help identify host genes that are responsible for the assembly of beneficial microbiomes. In recent years, advances in metagenome- wide association approaches, network analysis, genome- mining methods to identify biosynthetic  gene clusters, the reconstruction of transcriptional and regulatory networks, and the integration of modelling and prediction approaches have provided strong foundations for developing a trait- based framework to understand and engineer plant–microbiome interactions. However, whether the functional contributions of the microbiome are the same across different plant species, growth stages and disturbances remains to be determined.RhizosphereThe region of soil in the vicinity of plant roots that is influenced by plant- derived nutrients and oxygen availability; it is not a region of definable size or shape, but instead consists of a gradient in chemical, biological and physical properties that change both radially and longitudinally along the root.EndophytesThe microorganisms residing within plant tissues (the endosphere), such as leaves, roots or stems.PhyllosphereAll the aboveground organs  of plants, including the leaf, flower, stem and fruit.Hub microorganismsMicrobial groups that are substantially more connected within a co- occurrence network than other groups on the basis of centrality measurements, such as degree, between- ness centrality and closeness centrality.Keystone speciesHighly connected microbial taxa that individually or in a guild show great explanatory power for network structure and functioning, irrespective  of their abundance; not all hub species are keystone species, as a high number of direct correlations (a requirement for hubs) is not a requirement  for keystone species.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews610 | November 2020 | volume 18 234562.02.53.03.54.0Bacteria ab cFungiPhyllosphereLeaf endosphereRoot endosphereBulk soilBulk soilRhizosphereProteobacteriaActinobacteriaBacteroidetesFirmicutesAcidobacteriaPlanctomycetesOthersVerrucomicrobiaGemmatimonadetesCyanobacteriaBasidiomycetesAscomycetesOthersBulk soil Bulk soilRhizosphereRoot endospherePhyllosphereLeaf endosphere Leaf endosphereRhizosphereRoot endospherePhyllosphereBacterial diversity (Shannon diversity index (H))Fungal diversity (Shannon diversity index (H))Sample SampleFig. 1 | General structure of the bacterial and fungal communities from various plant- associated niches.  a | Microbiome composition varies depending on the plant compartment. Pie charts show averages of the relative abundances of the major bacterial (left) and fungal (right) phyla that are detected in the bulk soil, rhizosphere, root endosphere, leaf endosphere and phyllosphere of various plant species (sugarcane10,13, grapes8, cactus species (Myrtillocactus geometrizans and Opuntia robusta)11 and Agave species9 (A. tequilana, A. salmiana and A. deserti)). Abundances were estimated by marker- gene sequencing (16S rRNA for bacteria, and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) for fungi). Only phyla that represented >0.5% of the total population in at least one sample are included. The studies used high- throughput sequencing to profile the bacterial and fungal communities in different niches in a single study. b,c | Box plots show bacterial (part b) and fungal (part c) diversity (in terms of the Shannon diversity index (H )) in  the bulk soil, rhizosphere, root endosphere, leaf endosphere and phyllosphere of various plant species (data based  on reFS8–11,13).NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 611and thus also have an important role in orchestrating  host–microbiome interactions.Dynamics of the plant-  associated microbiome. The assembly of a plant- associated microbiome is a suc-cessional, multistep process that is determined by dis-persal, species interactions, the environment and the host. Early colonizers could be transmitted vertically, via the parents, through seed transmission pathways65. Therefore, these microorganisms may lack features that would otherwise facilitate early colonization — for example, active dispersal — and instead have charac-teristics selected by the host plants that depend on dif -ferences in terms of seed morphology and anatomy. Once seeds germinate, microbiome assembly is likely to be driven by horizontal transfer, where seed- borne microorganisms preferentially become associated with aboveground plant tissues, whereas soil- derived micro-organisms are mainly associated with the rhizosphere and roots66. The root- associated microbiome is likely to be dynamically recruited and assembled over the life-cycle of its plant host, and the temporal shifts in this microbiome are consistent across geographic locations43. The microbial composition of microbiomes, which can be highly dynamic in the early vegetative phase, begins to converge throughout vegetative growth and stabilizes during the reproductive phase43,67. Repeated sampling to study the structure of plant- associated microbiomes has shown that, although their composition varies with time, a small fraction of microbial taxa belonging to the core microbiota are consistently maintained in high rel-ative abundances throughout plant development10,19,43,67. These microorganisms possess multiple traits, for effi -cient colonization, stress tolerance and beneficial effects on the hosts66,68. Moreover, traits such as drought toler -ance and disease resistance that are conferred by associ-ations with a particular microbial group can be passed from mother plants to their offspring, which indicates the interlinked importance of host genetics and the  host- associated microbiome69,70.Plant colonization and community assemblyPlant sensing and the initiation of colonization. Plant-  associated microorganisms use chemotaxis  to sense and respond to plant- derived signals, such as organic acids and/or sugars present in plant exudates , and to initiate colonization (FiG.  2). Once a signal is perceived, micro-organisms move towards the plant primarily through the use of flagella. Subsequently, microorganisms attach to the root surface and form a biofilm . Genes that encode proteins involved in bacterial chemotaxis, flagella assem-bly, bacterial motility, biofilm formation, bacterial secre-tion and two- component regulatory systems are highly abundant in microorganisms and microbial communi-ties found in the root environment15,23,38,71,72 as well as in the stem and phyllosphere environments, as compared with the bulk soil3,24,25. A higher number of substrate transporters in the bacterial phyla Proteobacteria and Firmicutes facilitate the increased presence of these bacterial groups in nutrient- rich plant environments. Similarly, a substantially higher fraction of motility genes was observed in the genomes of bacterial isolates derived from the roots of A. thaliana  than in bacteria that had been isolated from soil42. Combined phylogenomic and phenotypic analyses suggest that such root coloniza-tion traits pre- date the acquisition of symbiosis genes in members that belong to the order Rhizobiales, which are part of the core microbiome61. Polyamines such as arginine and putrescine function as signalling mole-cules in the root–rhizosphere interface and inform the microbiome of the presence of eukaryotic hosts. Sensing of such molecules triggers a lifestyle switch in order to promote attachment and biofilm formation in many microbial groups25,73. After successful colonization, diverse host processes, such as the activation of plant signalling pathways and/or nutrient- stress- mediated root inhibition that alters the host root architecture, can lead to differential niche colonization patterns among various microbial groups.Uptake of plant metabolites. Plant metabolism generates chemically distinct environments, and many of the core functional traits that are reported to be over-  represented in plant- associated microbiomes correlate with the requirements for microbial growth and survival in  such plant environments. Comparative genomic analysis23 has confirmed the trends of metagenome analysis15  towards positive selection for genes involved in car -bohydrate metabolism and transport and for tran-scriptional regulators of these genes in the genomes of  phylogenetically diverse plant- associated bacteria.  Of note, several carbohydrate-  active enzymes  are shared between plant- associated bacteria and fungi, despite large evolutionary distances74. Genomic analysis has shown that fast- growing bacteria, such as the alphapro-teobacteria and gammaproteobacteria that are typically enriched in plant environments, have a high number of total transporters — including ATP- binding cassettes, phosphotransferase systems and drug/metabolite trans-porters — that could import or export a broad range of compounds23,75. The presence of low- affinity trans-porters in plant- associated microorganisms enables fast growth during periods of feast and endurance of star -vation during periods of famine, fluctuating conditions that are typical in the rhizosphere.Plant hosts provide stable metabolite availability, and this reduces the selective pressure on the associated microbiome to maintain capabilities for the biosynthe-sis of various essential compounds25,26. A recent study identified mutations in 50 bacterial genes required for amino acid metabolism that confer a fitness advan-tage to mutants relative to the wild- type strain of Pseudomonas simiae  WCS417r26. Genes for amino acid biosynthesis were depleted in the global citrus rhizos-phere compared with bulk soils15. The findings indi-cate that auxotrophy for specific amino acids confers a selective fitness advantage when plant- exuded amino acids are abundant. Interestingly, thiamine auxotrophy of the plant- beneficial endophytic fungus Serendipita indica  could be satisfied by the ubiquitous soil micro-organism Bacillus subtilis , but the success of this inter -action was only visible when inoculation of B. subtilis  was separated from that of S. indica  in either time or space76. This highlights the interkingdom cooperation ChemotaxisMovement of organisms  in response to a chemical stimulus in the direction  of a higher concentration of beneficial substances or a lower concentration of toxins.Plant exudatesComplex mixtures of soluble organic substances — which may contain sugars, amino acids, organic acids, enzymes and other substances — that are secreted by living plants, along with microbially modified products of these substances.BiofilmAn assemblage of microbial cells that is irreversibly associated with a surface and is enclosed in a matrix of primarily polysaccharide material.Carbohydrate- active enzymesenzymes involved in the biosynthesis, modification, binding and breakdown  of carbohydrates.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews612 | November 2020 | volume 18 among microbiomes in order to promote the successful  colonization of plant habitats.Siderophores  are important in various ecological phenomena, including iron biogeochemical cycling in soils, pathogen competition, plant growth promotion and cross- kingdom signalling. Siderophore- producing gene clusters were enriched in the rhizosphere of barley6, citrus15 and grapes8 compared with the bulk soil. Metagenomic analysis further revealed enrichment of siderophore- producing genes in the endosphere Intermicrobial interactions• Toxins• Defence systems• Antibiotic-resistance genes• CRISPR• Quorum-sensing systems• Two-component systemsMetabolismand transport• Degradation• Substrate utilization• Metabolite uptake• Amino acid metabolismChemotaxis and cell motility• Motility proteins• Flagellum assemblyAltered root exudationRecruitment of stress-resistant microbiomeRoot exudatesStart soilinoculumPlant interiorEﬀectorsReceptor/uni2193 MAMPScopoletinBioﬁlm production• Two-component, three-component or multicomponent systems• c-di-AMP• Plant compounds and signalsStressEndophytic colonization• Enzymes (detoxiﬁcation/uni2191, lytic/uni2193)• Transcriptional regulators• MAMP/uni2193• Secretion systems/uni2193• Eﬀectors• PREPARADOsFig. 2 | Plant colonization and microbiome assembly. Multiple and complex plant–microorganism and microorganism–microorganism interactions are required for the selective assembly of plant-associated microbiomes. Microbial-mediated processes, pathways and proteins that are related to colonization (metabolism and transport; intermicrobial interactions; chemotaxis and cell motility; biofilm production; and effector-mediated colonization and stress responses) are shown. The plant interacts with the microbiome through the release of root exudates (for example, organic acids, sugars and secondary metabolites) throughout its developmental stages. The microorganisms in the bulk soil act as ‘seed banks’ and vary in their genomic potential to degrade, utilize and metabolize distinct metabolite substrates in the root exudate. A rich repertoire of transporters confers selective advantage to a few microorganisms in taking up various plant-derived metabolites. Subsequently, the community is shaped by intense microorganism–microorganism interactions mediated via the strain-specific production and perception of antimicrobial molecules. Signalling events mediated by quorum sensing or other two-component systems have a key role in both intermicrobial and intramicrobial communications among different species. CRISPR-associated genes provide adaptive immunity against bacteriophages and are under strong selection pressure in plant-associated microbiomes. The presence of antibiotic-resistance genes may provide protection against biological and chemical warfare (for example, toxins and defence systems) that occurs during the initial stages of community assembly. Subsequently, the microbial community moves towards the plants through chemotaxis, involving motility proteins and the assembly of flagella. Further colonization is mediated through sophisticated communications between plants and microbial communities, leading to the formation of a biofilm on plant surfaces. Plant-produced compounds and signals not only induce biofilm production but also affect the architecture of the biofilm. Different two-component, three-component or multicomponent sensing and regulatory microbial pathways are involved in the integrated and  coordinated regulation of biofilm formation. The second messenger cyclic di-adenylate monophosphate (c-di-AMP) mediates interbacterial cell–cell communication and the initiation of biofilm formation by influencing the expression of genes involved in biofilm production. Genes involved in motility, chemotaxis, adhesion and biofilm production further contribute to plant colonization and the endophytic lifestyle within the host plant. Suppression of plant-produced reactive oxygen species by microbial detoxification enzymes such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, peroxidase, alkyl hydroperoxide reductase and glutathione-S-transferase facilitates initial endophytic colonization. Entry into plant tissues is facilitated by the production of lytic enzymes such as lysozymes or cell-wall-  degrading enzymes. It is postulated that endophytes produce low levels of lytic enzymes as compared with pathogens, thus avoiding triggering the plant immune response. Diversification of microbial-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) circumvents recognition by the plant immune response and is likely to shape endosphere microbial assemblages in plant populations. Type 3 and type 4 secretion systems that deliver effector proteins are absent or are present in low numbers in the endophytes, thus minimizing the activation of plant defences. However, effector-mediated colonization of the plant interior has been reported for Rhizobium-type bacteria or mycorrhizal fungi. Gene products from eukaryotic-like plant-  resembling plant-associated and root-associated domains (PREPARADOs) are speculated to mimic the host cell signalling, thus acting as decoys to circumvent plant defences and gain entry into plant tissues. Overall, the interplay between plants and their endophytic microbiota is complex and still far from being fully elucidated. Under biotic and abiotic stress conditions, plants can change their exudation patterns in order to selectively recruit  a beneficial ‘stress-tolerant microbiome’. For example, under iron or phosphorus stress conditions, the transcription factor MYB72 and the β-glucosidase BGLU42 (not shown) induce the biosynthesis and exudation of scopoletin, which has antimicrobial activity and selects for beneficial microorganisms that ameliorate stress (altered root exudation).NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 613compared with the rhizosphere in Populus deltoides77 and rice78. However, this was not reflected in the comparative genome analysis of bacterial isolates77. The prevalence of siderophore gene clusters across multiple biosynthetic pathways suggests that the possession of traits that facilitate competition for limiting resources provides a selective advantage to microorganisms in colonizing plant roots.Evading plant defences. Evasion or suppression of the plant immune system is not only essential for path-ogens to successfully infect plant hosts but also crit-ical for commensals to colonize different plant niches (Supplementary text S1). The plant-  associated micro -biota must cope with a host immune system that can recognize microorganism- associated molecular pat-terns (MAMPs), such as flagellin, lipopolysaccharides, chitin and elongation factor Tu- derived peptides79. Plant perception of MAMPs involves conserved signal-  transduction mechanisms, including the generation of reactive oxygen species, the activation of mitogen-  activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and the induction of salicylic acid- signalling and jasmonic acid- signalling pathways79. To overcome host immune surveillance, microorganisms secrete effector proteins . Some of these effector proteins emerged from convergent evo-lution and horizontal transfer of genes encoding pro -tein domains from eukaryotes, such that the effectors mimic plant proteins. Recently it was revealed that plant- resembling plant- associated and root- associated domains (PREPARADOs) were highly abundant in the genomes of plant- associated and root- associated bacte-ria compared with soil and non- plant- associated bac-terial genomes23. Some PREPARADOs themselves are domains within effectors and are predicted to be secreted by the general secretory pathway or type 3 secretion sys-tem (T3SS)80. PREPARADOs may represent a ‘camou-flage’ strategy to evade MAMP- triggered immunity by binding to extracellular MAMP molecules (for exam-ple, mannose) and thereby functioning as a molecular invisibility cloak. A large set of PREPARADO domains are shared between plants, plant-  associated fungi, oomy -cetes and bacteria, which suggests convergent evolution or cross- kingdom horizontal gene transfer between phy-logenetically distinct organisms subjected to the shared selective forces of the plant environment. Interestingly, genes encoding proteins involved in the T3SS are higher in nodule- forming symbionts and phytopathogens than in endophytes. By contrast, those genes are found in a substantially larger number of endophytes than in soil bacteria81. Thus, it will be essential to understand how some taxa exploit virulence mechanisms for symbiotic associations and plant colonization.Notably, several factors implicated in host–pathogen interactions (such as T3SS, regulation of virulence, invasion and intracellular resistance), microorganism–microorganism interactions (T6SS) and bacteria–phage interactions (bacteriophage integration and transposable elements) were found to be enriched in healthy citrus rhizosphere samples collected from across the globe15,71, as well as in the barley6 rhizosphere, relative to bulk soil samples. These signs of positive selection are evidence of plant–microbiome co- evolution in the rhizosphere and suggest an arms- race co- evolution model in natural communities similar to the model proposed for binary plant–pathogen interactions82. Another mechanism of plant defence evasion in plant-  associated micro -organisms could be the ability to disperse from the ini-tial site of colonization after triggering a plant defence response25. In this respect, genes involved in biofilm production or in the regulation of such genes are impor -tant to altering colonization patterns and evading the  induction of a host defence.Microbial interactions. It is not surprising that several microbial genes active and/or enriched in plant envi-ronments have a role in cooperative or competitive interactions with other members of the microbiome. Diverse and distinct gene clusters for natural- product biosynthesis from 339 plant- associated bacteria were reported77. As the genetic potential of bacteria to syn-thesize different types of natural products influences microorganism–microorganism and microorganism–plant interactions, a comprehensive understanding of the plant microbiome will require greater knowledge of how these compounds are produced and regulated and of their mechanism of action. The genomes of many plant- associated bacteria encode interspecific and intraspecific bacteria- killing mechanisms (for example, the production of antibiotics), through which they can modulate the distribution, abundance and diversity of other microbial groups within the plant host77. Specific functional traits related to pathogen suppression (for example, protein secretion systems and biosynthesis genes for antifungal compounds) are more abundant in the bacterial rhizosphere community of disease- resistant varieties of bean and tomato than in susceptible varie-ties or in bulk soil83–85. Pathogen- induced activation of chitinase genes and various unknown biosynthetic gene clusters encoding non-  ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) and polyketide synthases (PKSs) is responsi-ble for disease- suppressive functions in the endophytic root microbiome86. Genome mining of phyllosphere bacteria has identified more than 1,000 biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) that belong to diverse biosyn-thetic classes, including ribosomally synthesized and post- translationally modified peptide and terpene sys-tems, NPRSs and trans - AT PKSs87. These BGCs are pos-tulated to be involved in microorganism–microorganism interactions and niche adaptations. In addition to anti-biotic production, genes related to antibiotic resistance were also enriched in the plant environment15, which suggests an intense microbial arms race that controls the  microbial community structure.Quorum sensing  is a well- established mechanism of bacterial cell-  to- cell communication that involves the production and sensing of signalling molecules (such as homoserine lactone (HSL))88. Different bac-terial taxa can generate the same type of signalling molecule, which enables either cooperation or inter -ference (quorum quenching) with other unrelated taxa. Moreover, quorum- sensing molecules also have a role in interkingdom interactions. The perception of HSLs by plants leads to modulation of the plant SiderophoresLow- molecular- weight organic chelators with a very high and specific affinity for ferric iron, which scavenge iron from the environment and make the element available to microbial cells and/or a plant host.Effector proteinsProteins produced by plant- associated microorganisms that modify plant functioning in order  to promote microbial colonization.Quorum sensingPopulation- density- dependent regulation of gene expression, mediated by the production  of signal molecules called autoinducers.www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews614 | November 2020 | volume 18 metabolism, immune response and root development89. Quorum-  sensing-  mediated swarming of the finger millet endophyte M6 ( Enterobacter  sp.) towards root-  invading Fusarium graminearum , along with its formation of microcolonies, results in a multilayer root- hair endo-phyte stack90 that forms a physical barrier that prevents entry and/or traps the pathogen, which is subsequently killed. The metagenomic analysis of plant- associated microbiomes15 has shown enrichment of HSLs in the plant environment compared with bulk soils. About 40–50% of the bacteria isolated from plant environments showed HSL activity77,91. Genes for terpene biosynthe-sis were present in the largest number of genomes of plant- associated bacteria, with 49% of isolates carry-ing a gene encoding a terpene synthase77. Terpenoids have diverse biological and ecological functions, such as carotenoid  production, as well as functioning as chemical defences against herbivores and pathogens92. Bacterial terpenes are implicated in interkingdom sig -nalling, as these volatile compounds elicit profound responses from plants93. Specific microbial colonization on the ‘local side’ induces microbiome- reprogrammed systemically induced root exudation of metabolites (SIREM), and microbial colonization on the ‘systemic side’ results in long- distance communication between unshared microhabitats of tomato rhizosphere94. For example, inoculation of bacteria that belong to the orders Bacillales or Pseudomonadales on the local side induces the accumulation of bacterial- specific SIREMs. Transportation of these signals through shoots to the unshared area of roots facilitates the assembly and colo-nization of SIREM-  specific microbial populations on the  systemic side.Bacterial T6SSs inhibit competitor cells through a toxic effector and its cognate immunity protein95. Microorganisms that can successfully colonize plant environments may use not only host colonization factors but also mechanisms to exclude closely related compet-itors. Multiple T6SS genes were found to be enriched in the rhizosphere communities of barley6, citrus15, wheat and cucumber5. A new family of T6SS effectors, ‘Hyde1’ , which is specific to Acidovorax  phytopathogens (absent from Acidovorax  commensals), is efficient in controlling various leaf bacterial isolates, suggesting a role in interbacterial competition in plants23. Despite the broad distribution of interbacterial T6SS killing mech-anisms, few studies have investigated their ecological roles96,97. Interestingly, some CRISPR- associated pro-teins have shown positive selection pressure in the root environment6, which indicates that microorganisms face intense selection pressures from bacteriophages.In summary, an extensive repertoire of traits involv-ing resource acquisition, motility, habitat modification and various microorganism–microorganism or plant–microorganism interactions may be needed by members of the plant microbiota in order to colonize the plant environment (FiG.  2). However, most of this knowledge has come from reductionist experiments and does not consider the modular and synergistic interactions under the holobiome concept. Bottom- up experimental approaches are now needed, whereby diverse microbial members from different plant- associated environments are systematically isolated and functionally character -ized, followed by the reconstitution of communities with increasing complexity and gnotobiotic assays in order to quantitatively assess host–microbiome interactions98.Recent research has emphasized the importance of eco-  evolutionary processes in the assembly of plant- associated microbiomes, such as dispersal (move-ment of microorganisms between different niches), selection (biotic and abiotic effects causing fitness dif-ferences), ecological drift (stochastic changes in popu-lation size that influence the abundance of a particular member) and diversification (processes that generate genetic variation)99. Both stochastic colonization and historical contingency may have essential roles in struc-turing the plant- associated microbiome. Microbial com-munity structure in the rhizosphere67 and phyllosphere40 is initially determined by stochastic processes. The order and timing of species arrival and dispersal (also known as priority effects) influence all the eco- evolutionary processes that affect assembly of the plant- associated microbiome. Priority effects can cause historical con-tingency to affect both the structure and function of the plant- associated microbiome and therefore can have long- lasting consequences for plant performance. Although the initial microbiome community is robust, plants can accommodate new species without substan-tially changing the pre- existing community40. Rare taxa are postulated to provide a robust reservoir of ecological functions and could drive priority effects in microbiome assembly during the early stages of plant development, with variable consequences for plant performance at later stages67. Determining the principles governing the assembly, dynamics, stability and vulnerability to disturbance of the microbiome, including the roles of biotic and abiotic factors, will lead to a better mechanis-tic understanding of the influence of the microbiome on both the fitness and function of plant hosts (Box  1, Supplementary text S1).Functions of plant- associated microbiomesNutrient acquisition. Plant- associated microbiomes have essential functions in improving plant nutrition (FiG.  3). The molecular mechanisms driving nutrient acquisition have been thoroughly studied for plant symbioses with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and Rhizobium bacteria27–30. Moreover, non- symbiotic plant- growth-  promoting bacteria can either enhance the bioavaila -bility of insoluble minerals or improve the root system architecture of host plants, thus increasing the explor -atory capacity of the root for water and minerals27,29. The functional plant traits related to the acquisition or conservation of nutrients that differentiate exploitative (fast- growing) versus conservative (slow- growing) plant species are contributed by their associated microbiome27. A recent study showed that differences in the nitrogen use efficiency of rice varieties is due to the recruitment of a higher proportion of nitrogen- cycle- related bacteria, leading to more efficient nitrogen transformation pro-cesses in the root environment of Oryza indica  than of Oryza japonica  varieties38. Notably, a 16- member indica - enriched SynCom substantially promoted the growth of an indica  variety in comparison to a 3-  member CarotenoidAn organic pigment produced by plants, algae and several groups of bacteria and fungi.NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 615japonica - enriched SynCom when organic nitrogen was used as the sole nitrogen source. This suggested that effective transformation of organic nitrogen into nitrate and ammonium by the indica - enriched microbiome may contribute to higher nitrogen use efficiency in  indica  rice.Multipartite microbial synergies between mycor -rhizal fungi (which promote nitrogen acquisition but have limited ability to access organic nitrogen) and soil microbial communities (which mineralize organic nitrogen into bioavailable forms) resulted in a ten-fold increase in the uptake of nitrogen from organic matter in Brachypodium distachyon  as compared with non- microbial controls100. It is predicted that these pre-viously unquantified associations may contribute to  >70 teragrams (1012 g) of annually assimilated plant nitro-gen, with a positive impact on net primary productivity100. Plant traits involved in nutrient use efficiency are related to the differential colonization of plants with two major groups of mycorrhizal fungi101. Plants that are colonized Mitigate abiotic stress • Microorganism–microorganism interactions• Hub microorganismsInduced systemic resistancePromote growth• Plant hormones• ACC deaminase• Osmoprotectants• Detoxiﬁcation enzymesStimulateDefencePrevent dysbiosis Unlock essential nutrients Enhance nutrient uptakeProtect against pathogens and invertebrate pestsPlant available nutrients• Solubilize• Oxidize• ChelateRootexudatesDirect• Competition• Siderophores• Lytic enzymes• Antibiotic secretion• VolatilesIndirect• Secretion systems• PiliOrganic acid, siderophoreMineral elementsSO42–K+Fe2–PiMg++PO4+Nitrogen ﬁxationNitrogen-ﬁxing bacteriaNodulating bacteria (for example, Rhizobium, Frankia, Bradyrhizobium)Hyphae of arbuscularmycorrhizaArbuscleMyceliumNodulesAmmonifyingbacteriaNitrifyingbacteriaHumusArgN2NO3–NO3–NH4+NH4+NH4+NO3–www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews616 | November 2020 | volume 18 with ectomycorrhizal fungi adopt nutrient conserva-tion strategies, whereas plants that are colonized with AMF are nutrient acquisitive101. Rhizosphere micro-organisms that prolong nitrogen bioavailability by nitrification delay flowering time and stimulate plant growth by converting tryptophan to the phytohormone indole acetic acid (IAA), which downregulates genes that  trigger flowering102.Plant- associated microbiota can mobilize nutri-ents that are not readily available to plants, such as inorganic phosphate and iron, through solubilization, mineralization or excretion via iron- chelating sidero-phores (FiG.  3). Under conditions of low inorganic phosphate, plants rely on microbial cooperation part-ners, including AMF and their symbiotic endophytes, to satisfy needs for this essential nutrient103. Under phosphate- limiting conditions, SynComs of differ -ent complexity enhanced the transcription of plant genes involved in phosphate starvation responses, thereby increasing the uptake of inorganic phosphate by plants37. Non- mycorrhizal plants assemble a core inorganic- phosphate- assimilating fungal microbiome that expands the ability of plants to grow in phosphate-  depleted soils104. Phosphate- starvation- mediated repression of the immune response enables a build- up of mutualistic plant–fungal associations that increases plant inorganic- phosphate uptake105. Such observa-tions suggest that fine-  tuned interactions between the nutritional and immune status of plants regu-late microbiota- mediated beneficial functions. The A. thaliana  root bacterial community is shaped by coumarins, plant- derived specialized secondary metab-olites that on the one hand facilitate iron mobilization and on the other generate reactive oxygen species that inhibit the proliferation of a relatively abundant Pseudomonas  species that competes with plants for iron106. The root- specific transcription factor MYB72 has an important role in both rhizobacteria-  mediated induced systemic resistance  (ISR) and iron acquisition107. Interestingly, volatile compounds from ISR- inducing rhizobacteria and Trichoderma  fungi elicit the expres-sion of MYB72 in order to induce the genetic machin-ery for enhanced iron uptake by roots108. Adjustments in local iron homeostasis transmit systemic signals to plant shoots to induce jasmonic- acid- dependent ISR108. These recent studies have shed light on the vital role of plant- associated microbiomes on plant functioning and open up multiple opportunities to manipulate plant characteristics by using microbial interventions.Disease resistance. The impact of natural microorganism-  based plant defence on plant health is evidenced most clearly in disease- suppressive soils, whereby plant root exudates stimulate, enrich and support soil microor -ganisms as the first line of defence against soil- borne pathogens32. Community- based analyses of suppres-sive soils have demonstrated that no single phylum was uniquely associated with disease suppression32–34,109,110. Although the interactions between microbial consor -tia and a specific pathogen that result in disease sup-pression are biologically complex, similar mechanisms, such as the production of antifungal metabolites32,110 and volatiles111,112 by different bacterial genera, are responsi-ble for the build- up of disease- suppressive soils. If the pathogen breaches the first line of rhizosphere- mediated disease resistance, the endophytic microbiome can pro-vide an additional layer of protection through selective enrichment of microbiome members that possess genetic machinery to produce enzymes and secondary meta-bolites against the pathogen86. Interestingly, the MAMP-  triggered immunity pathway is induced to higher levels in disease- suppressive soils113. Management practices such as crop rotation, residue retention and compost additions can induce general or specific disease sup-pression by affecting microbiome composition driven by the greater availability of carbon114. A recent study34 modelled general disease suppression against Fusarium oxysporum and determined that the abundances of bac-teria in the phyla Actinobacteria and Firmicutes can be used as predictive markers of disease- suppressive soils at the continental scale. Disease- resistant traits of Fig. 3 | Beneficial effects of the plant- associated microbiome. The plant- associated microbiome can provide benefits to the plant through various direct or indirect mechanisms. These benefits include growth promotion (blue), stress control (green)  and defence against pathogens and pests (red). Microbiome- mediated benefits can be initiated in any part of a plant (mostly belowground) and can be transmitted to other parts via plant- mediated transport or signals (shown as blue, green and red dashed arrows, representing mechanisms that contribute to plant growth, stress relief and defence, respectively). Direct effects are mediated through nitrogen fixation, through unlocking of essential nutrients from minerals and through enhancing the capability  of plants to take up nutrients from the soil. In addition, other direct effects include  the stimulation of plant growth via stress alleviation, through the modulation of aminocyclopropane-1- carboxylate (ACC) deaminase expression and the production  of plant hormones, detoxification enzymes and osmoprotectants. Benefits can also be indirect, as the plant- associated microbiome protects the plant against pathogens or pests through antagonism or through inducing systemic resistance in plants. Complex microorganism–microorganism and host–microorganism interactions maintain the balance between different members of the microbial community in favour of beneficial microorganisms that contribute to plant health (yellow). Diazotrophic bacteria can fix atmospheric nitrogen (N2) and might actively transport ammonium (NH4+) and nitrate (NO3−) to the host. Ammonifying bacteria convert organic N2 present in the soil to NH4+, which is further converted to NO3− by nitrifying bacteria. Leguminous plants develop root nodule symbiosis with N2- fixing bacteria. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi convert arginine (Arg) to urea and then to NH4+. Microbiomes can unlock essential elements by oxidizing, solubilizing or chelating minerals into plant- available nutrients such as phosphate (Pi), nitrogen (NH4+) and potassium (K+) through the production of organic acids and siderophores. Furthermore, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi might enhance nutrient availability by long- distance transport through the mycelium and specialized structures called arbuscules (fungal hyphae ensheathed in a modified form of the cortical cell plasma membrane) that transport elements directly to the host cytoplasm. Microbiomes can stimulate plant growth by metabolizing tryptophan and other small molecules in  the plant exudates and producing phytohormones that include auxins, gibberellins, cytokinins and phytohormone mimics. Auxins can also induce transcription of the ACC synthase that catalyses the formation of ACC. ACC, the direct precursor of ethylene, is metabolized by bacteria via the enzyme ACC deaminase, thus ameliorating abiotic stress. Members of plant- associated microbiomes produce a range of enzymes that can detoxify reactive oxygen species, thus minimizing plant- induced stress. The plant- associated microbiome protects the plant against pathogens by the production of antibiotics, lytic enzymes, volatiles and siderophores. Various microbial structures — such as secretion systems, flagella and pili — along with proteins such as effector proteins, indirectly contribute to plant defence by triggering an induced systemic resistance response. Siderophore- mediated nutrient competition between commensals and plant pathogens can reduce pathogen titres. Interkingdom and intrakingdom interactions within the microbiome maintain the microbial balance, thus protecting plants from dysbiosis. Furthermore, hub microorganisms can amplify host signals in order to promote the assembly of a microbiome that provides benefits to the plant. Overall, beneficial  plant–microbiome interactions improve the growth performance and/or health of plants.Induced systemic resistance(iSr). A physiological ‘state of enhanced defensive capacity’ of the entire plant against diverse pathogens and herbivores that is induced  by local stimulation through beneficial microorganisms.◀NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 617a tomato variety have been attributed to the selective recruitment of bacteria that can antagonize the wilt path-ogen, Ralstonia solanacearum84. Microbiome- mediated plant protection can be transferred and maintained via soil transplantations67,84. SynComs constructed on the basis of knowledge of the microorganisms in disease-  suppressive soils have been reported to control diseases in field conditions32,33.ISR can be triggered by plant- growth- promoting bac-teria and fungi residing in the rhizosphere28. Local sup-pression of root immune responses is a common feature of ISR- eliciting beneficial microorganisms.28. Pathogen infection causes alterations in root exudation patterns that result in the selective recruitment of ISR- inducing microbiota83,113. The presence of heterogeneous microbial communities living on the surface of the aboveground portion (the episphere) and the endosphere of tomato plants modulates phenylpropanoid metabolism (involved in salicylic acid synthesis), which leads to cell wall fortifi -cation that protects the plant from Fusarium oxysporum  f. sp. lycopersici110. Cell wall fortification functions as a barrier not just against pathogen attack but also against abiotic stresses such as salinity, which suggests a direct interplay between stress tolerance and immunity115. The induction of jasmonic acid signalling and plant defences modulated by root- associated bacterial and fungal com-munities also affects aboveground insect herbivory116. Remarkably, ISR induction by plant- associated micro-biomes drives the secretion of antimicrobial compounds such as coumarin107 and benzoxazinoids117 that further intensify the recruitment of ISR- inducing strains. This suggests that plant immune responses can be manipu-lated so as to recruit microorganisms that provide sta-ble plant protection over multiple generations. Through plant–soil feedbacks and legacy effects, the selective enrichment of microbial communities in response to both biotic and abiotic stresses can affect plant immunity in subsequent generations118. Engineering plant- associated microbiomes to control plant disease will continue to require a deeper understanding of the plant–microbiome–environment interactions among diverse crops of interest.Stress tolerance. Plant- associated microorganisms could modify plant evolutionary responses to environ-mental stress in at least three non-  mutually- exclusive pathways: by altering the fitness of individual plant genotypes, the expression of plant traits related to fit-ness, and the strength or direction of natural selection occurring within populations that experience environ-mental stress through the microorganisms’ effects on reproductive fitness12,69,119, 120. Plants generally select a stress- resistance- promoting microbiome under abiotic or biotic stress conditions119– 124 (Box  3, Supplementary text S1). The plant traits favoured under adverse con-ditions, especially drought, may depend on changes in the associated microbiome. Several recent studies have shown that naturally occurring and artificial variation in the microbiome can alter plant flowering time on the order of 1–5 days69,119,124. Drought- induced early flow-ering has been proposed as a potential mechanism of drought avoidance.The mechanisms underlying microbiome- induced flowering plasticity remain unknown, but probably they include a combination of direct effects of the micro -biome on plant physiology and indirect effects mediated by soil nutrient availability. Drought- mediated produc-tion of the plant hormone abscisic acid dampens the plant immune response, thus facilitating large shifts in the root endophytic community12. These fluctuations mitigate water stress, possibly through the production of plant hormones and/or changes in the biochemi-cal activity of host plants12. Plants respond to multiple stresses by upregulating the physiologically costly ethyl-ene signalling pathway, which causes trade- offs between stress resistance and growth rate125. Both microbial eth-ylene reduction and gene mutations that disrupt ethyl -ene signalling in plants have strong pleiotropic effects, with increased plant growth, but at the cost of strong stress hypersensitivity35. These findings suggest that plant–microbiome interactions are neither beneficial nor deleterious, but instead function as modulators, generating new phenotypes by reshuffling existing traits. Interestingly, for fungal endophytes, traits related to resource use and stress tolerance predicted 26–53% of the endophyte- mediated effects on plant performance under water stress126. The moderately predictive effect of functional microbial traits for plant performance can be used to develop a framework for screening new micro-organisms that can increase plant fitness under stress conditions (Box  3).ConclusionsIn recent years, plant–microbiome research has bene-fited enormously from cross- disciplinary efforts that have brought concepts from multi-‘omics’ , engineer -ing, theory, experimental biology, computational bio -logy and statistics to generate quantitative insights into plant–microbiome interactions. The extensive survey of a few models and of important crops, plants and trees have established a ‘parts list’ of the major bacterial and fungal associates, although a vast amount of novel diversity remains to be discovered for most plants.  A systematic approach to identifying the microbiomes of ecologically and economically important plant spe-cies, comparable to human microbiome approaches, will be needed in order to identify core and hub microbiota and the host functions they provide. Although bacterial and fungal lineages contribute the vast majority of the plant- associated microbiome by abundance, there is a critical knowledge gap concerning the shape and drivers of other fractions of the plant microbiome (for example, viruses, archaea, protists and nematodes) that influence bacterial and fungal communities via bottom- up and top- down processes. GW ASs and metagenome- wide association studies have identified key drivers that influence the assembly of plant- associated microbiota and have linked individual microbial taxa and genes to plant colonization, plant physiology and traits related  to plant fitness. However, they have also revealed that large proportions of the variation in community assem-bly and the effects of microbiomes on plant fitness remain unexplained. To elucidate these gaps, larger- scale longitudinal studies will be needed to establish baselines www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews618 | November 2020 | volume 18 for plant- associated microbiomes, with explicit consid-eration of temporal dynamics and host age. In recent years, some progress has been made in elucidating multipartite (for example, plant–animal–soil or plant–environment–soil) interactions in the phytobiome ; how -ever, we have very little knowledge on the functional properties of the microbiome. The limited but increas-ing functional understanding of the microbiome is beginning to be translated into accepted practice, in the form of the development and application of SynComs to increase plant fitness and productivity (Supplementary text S2). However, a consensus on the desired microbial endpoints (what is a ‘healthy’ microbiome) has yet to be determined. Similarly to breeding, the plant microbiota may affect the plant phenotype. Although the optimi-zation of SynComs is rapidly advancing, crop- breeding programmes have not yet incorporated the selection of beneficial plant–microorganism interactions in order to breed ‘microorganism- optimized’ plants.Moving forward, we envision that the next gener -ation of computational and experimental approaches will be able to resolve some methodological and tech-nological challenges. These include the translation of data into phenotypic links, experimental modelling through co- cultivation or gnotobiotic methods, and multiscale computational simulations. These integrative approaches will combine the skills, methodologies and expertise from a range of disciplines within the sciences, engineering and beyond. Increased understanding of the dynamic plant–microbiome–environment interac -tions will provide a way forward to engineering com-plex microbial consortia with predictable behaviour and robust outcomes. By closely coupling modelling with experimental approaches, we expect that scien -tific advancement will be accelerated, creating a future in which the activities of indigenous microbiomes can be reliably enhanced and in which engineered microbiomes can be deployed safely and effectively in large- scale field settings for improved and sustainable plant  production.Published online 12 August 2020PhytobiomePlants, their environment  and all microorganisms and macroorganisms living in,  on or around the plants.1. Vandenkoornhuyse, P ., Quaiser, A., Duhamel, M.,  Le Van, A. & Dufresne, A. The importance of the microbiome of the plant holobiont. New Phytol. 206, 1196–1206 (2015).2. Lundberg, D. S. et al. Defining the core Arabidopsis thaliana root microbiome. Nature 488, 86–90 (2012).  This is one of the first studies to use high-  throughput sequencing to profile the plant-  associated microbiota, suggesting compartment-  specific assembly of microbial communities.3. Vorholt, J. A. Microbial life in the phyllosphere.  Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 10, 828–840 (2012).4. Peiffer, J. A. et al. Diversity and heritability of the maize rhizosphere microbiome under field conditions. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 110, 6548–6553 (2013).5. Ofek- Lalzar, M. et al. Niche and host- associated functional signatures of the root surface microbiome. Nat. Commun. 5, 4950 (2014).6. Bulgarelli, D. et al. Structure and function of the bacterial root microbiota in wild and domesticated barley. Cell Host Microbe 17, 392–403 (2015).  In this study, shotgun metagenome analysis was used to elucidate the microbial traits involved in the bacterium–bacteriophage, interbacterial and host–bacterium interactions that govern plant colonization.7. Edwards, J. et al. Structure, variation, and assembly  of the root- associated microbiomes of rice. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 112, E911–E920 (2015).8. Zarraonaindia, I. et al. The soil microbiome influences grapevine- associated microbiota. mBio 6, e02527–14 (2015).9. Coleman- Derr, D. et al. Plant compartment and biogeography affect microbiome composition in cultivated and native Agave species. New Phytol. 209, 798–811 (2016).10. De Souza, R. S. C. et al. Unlocking the bacterial  and fungal communities assemblages of sugarcane microbiome. Sci. Rep. 6, 28774 (2016).11. Fonseca- García, C. et al. The cacti microbiome: interplay between habitat- filtering and host- specificity. Front. Microbiol. 7, 150 (2016).12. Fitzpatrick, C. R. et al. Assembly and ecological function of the root microbiome across angiosperm plant species. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115, E1157–E1165 (2018).13. Hamonts, K. et al. Field study reveals core plant microbiota and relative importance of their drivers. Environ. Microbiol. 20, 124–140 (2018).14. Niu, B., Paulson, J. N., Zheng, X. & Kolter, R. Simplified and representative bacterial community  of maize roots. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 114, E2450–E2459 (2017).15. Xu, J. et al. The structure and function of the global citrus rhizosphere microbiome. Nat. Commun. 9, 4894 (2018).  This study presents one of the most comprehensive investigations on the structure and functional features of the microbiome associated with a particular plant species, identifying the core microbiota and functions that are persistently present at a global scale.16. Bergelson, J., Mittelstrass, J. & Horton, M. W. Characterizing both bacteria and fungi improves understanding of the Arabidopsis root microbiome. Sci. Rep. 9, 24 (2019).17. Wagner, M. R. et al. Host genotype and age shape  the leaf and root microbiomes of a wild perennial plant. Nat. Commun. 7, 12151 (2016).18. Roman- Reyn, V. et al. The rice leaf microbiome has a conserved community structure controlled by complex host- microbe. Preprint at bioRxiv https://doi.org/ 10.1101/615278 (2019).19. Cregger, M. A. et al. The Populus holobiont: dissecting the effects of plant niches and genotype on the microbiome. Microbiome 6, 31 (2018).20. Lemanceau, P ., Blouin, M., Muller, D. & Moënne-  Loccoz, Y. Let the core microbiota be functional. T rends Plant Sci. 22, 583–595 (2017).21. Mendes, R., Garbeva, P . & Raaijmakers, J. M.  The rhizosphere microbiome: significance of plant beneficial, plant pathogenic, and human pathogenic microorganisms. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 37, 634–663 (2013).22. Leach, J. E., T riplett, L. R., Argueso, C. T . & T rivedi, P . Communication in the phytobiome. Cell 169,  587–596 (2018).23. Levy, A. et al. Genomic features of bacterial adaptation to plants. Nat. Genet. 50, 138–150 (2018).  In this study, comparative genomics is used to identify the genes involved in bacterial adaptation to plants, including genes associated with plant colonization, microorganism–microorganism competition and host–microorganism interactions.24. Delmotte, N. et al. Community proteogenomics reveals insights into the physiology of phyllosphere bacteria. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 106,  16428–16433 (2009).25. Liu, Z. et al. A genome- wide screen identifies genes  in rhizosphere- associated Pseudomonas required to evade plant defenses. m Bio 9, e00433-–18 (2018).26. Cole, B. J. et al. Genome- wide identification of bacterial plant colonization genes. PLoS Biol. 15, e2002860 (2018).27. Richardson, A. E. & Simpson, R. J. Soil microorganisms mediating phosphorus availability update on microbial phosphorus. Plant Physiol. 156, 989–996 (2011).28. Pieterse, C. M. et al. Induced systemic resistance  by beneficial microbes. Ann. Rev. Phytopathol. 52, 347–375 (2014).29. T rivedi, P ., T rivedi, C., Grinyer, J., Anderson, I. C. & Singh, B. K. Harnessing host- vector microbiome for sustainable plant disease management of phloem-  limited bacteria. Front. Plant Sci. 7, 1423 (2016).30. Backer, R. et al. Plant growth- promoting rhizobacteria: context, mechanisms of action, and roadmap to commercialization of biostimulants for sustainable agriculture. Front. Plant Sci. 9, 1473 (2018).31. Gouda, S. et al. Revitalization of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria for sustainable development in agriculture. Microbiol. Res. 206, 131–140 (2018).32. Mendes, R. et al. Deciphering the rhizosphere microbiome for disease- suppressive bacteria. Science  332, 1097–1100 (2011).  This study identifies vital bacterial groups and functional traits that are involved in building disease- suppressive soils, thus demonstrating  that selective enrichment of microbial groups  in response to pathogen attack protects plants against infections.33. Santhanam, R., Weinhold, A., Goldberg, J., Oh, Y. & Baldwin, I. T . Native root- associated bacteria rescue a plant from a sudden- wilt disease that emerged during continuous cropping. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 112, E5013–E5020 (2015).34. T rivedi, P . et al. Keystone microbial taxa regulate  the invasion of a fungal pathogen in agro- ecosystems. Soil. Biol. Biochem. 111, 10–14 (2017).35. Ravanbakhsh, M., Kowalchuk, G. A. & Jousset, A. Root- associated microorganisms reprogram plant life history along the growth–stress resistance tradeoff. ISME J. 13, 3093–3101 (2019).36. Xue, C. et al. Manipulating the banana rhizosphere microbiome for biological control of Panama disease. Sci. Rep. 5, 11124 (2015).37. Castrillo, G. et al. Root microbiota drive direct integration of phosphate stress and immunity. Nature  543, 513–518 (2017).  In this study, a synthetic microbial community is used to define the molecular interactions that activate  a microbiome- mediated response under nutrient-  deficient conditions while repressing host immune output, allowing selective microbial colonization.38. Zhang, J. et al. NRT1.1B is associated with root microbiota composition and nitrogen use in field-  grown rice. Nat. Biotechnol. 37, 676–684 (2019).  This study demonstrates that slight variation  in single plant genes can result in differential recruitment and enrichment of selected microbial groups and functions that correlate with higher nitrogen use efficiency of indica than of japonica  varieties of rice.39. Durán, P . et al. Microbial interkingdom interactions  in roots promote Arabidopsis survival. Cell 175,  973–983 (2018).  This study demonstrates that biocontrol traits of root- associated bacteria modulate interkingdom interactions between bacterial and filamentous eukaryotic microorganisms, resulting in a balanced plant–microbiome interaction that favours plant growth and survival against root- derived fungi  and/or oomycetes.NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 61940. Carlström, C. I. et al. Synthetic microbiota reveal priority effects and keystone strains in the Arabidopsis  phyllosphere. Nat. Ecol. Evol. 3, 1445–1454 (2019).41. Maignien, L., DeForce, E. A., Chafee, M. E., Eren, A. M. & Simmons, S. L. Ecological succession and stochastic variation in the assembly of Arabidopsis thaliana  phyllosphere communities. m Bio 5, e00682-13 (2014).42. Bai, Y. et al. Functional overlap of the Arabidopsis leaf and root microbiota. Nature 528, 364–369 (2015).  This study demonstrates a significant overlap between bacterial isolates from plant environments and their representation in culture- independent surveys, suggesting that a substantial proportion  of the plant- associated microbiota is culturable.43. Edwards, J. A. et al. Compositional shifts in root-  associated bacterial and archaeal microbiota track  the plant life cycle in field- grown rice. PLoS Biol. 16, e2003862 (2018).44. Morella, N. M. et al. Successive passaging of a plant-  associated microbiome reveals robust habitat and host genotype- dependent selection. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 117, 1148–1159 (2019).45. Moissl- Eichinger, C. et al. Archaea are interactive components of complex microbiomes. T rends Microbiol. 26, 70–85 (2018).46. T affner, J. et al. What is the role of Archaea in plants? New insights from the vegetation of alpine bogs. MSphere 3, e00122-–18 (2018).47. T affner, J., Cernava, T., Erlacher, A. & Berg, G. Novel insights into plant- associated archaea and their functioning in arugula (Eruca sativa Mill.). J. Adv. Res.  19, 39–48 (2019).48. Pratama, A. A. & van Elsas, J. D. The ‘neglected’ soil virome — potential role and impact. T rends Microbiol.  26, 649–662 (2018).49. T rubl, G. et al. Soil viruses are underexplored players in ecosystem carbon processing. m Systems 3, e00076-18 (2018).50. Morella, N. M., Gomez, A. L., Wang, G., Leung, M. S. & Koskella, B. The impact of bacteriophages on phyllosphere bacterial abundance and composition. Mol. Ecol. 27, 2025–2038 (2018).51. Castillo, J. D., Vivanco, J. M. & Manter, D. K. Bacterial microbiome and nematode occurrence in different potato agricultural soils. Microb. Ecol. 74, 888–900 (2017).52. Elhady, A. et al. Microbiomes associated with infective stages of root- knot and lesion nematodes in soil.  PLoS ONE 12, e0177145 (2017).53. T reonis, A. M. et al. Characterization of soil nematode communities in three cropping systems through morphological and DNA metabarcoding approaches. Sci. Rep. 8, 2004 (2018).54. Gao, Z., Karlsson, I., Geisen, S., Kowalchuk, G. & Jousset, A. Protists: puppet masters of the rhizosphere microbiome. T rends Plant Sci. 24, 165–176 (2018).55. Larousse, M. & Galiana, E. Microbial partnerships of pathogenic oomycetes. PLoS Pathog. 13, e1006028 (2017).56. Ploch, S. & Thines, M. Obligate biotrophic pathogens of the genus Albugo are widespread as asymptomatic endophytes in natural populations of Brassicaceae. Mol. Ecol. 20, 3692–3699 (2015).57. Benhamou, N. et al. Pythium oligandrum: an example of opportunistic success. Microbiol 158, 2679–2694 (2012).58. Sapp, M., Ploch, S., Fiore- Donno, A. M., Bonkowski, M. & Rose, L. E. Protists are an integral part of the Arabidopsis thaliana microbiome. Environ. Microbiol.  20, 30–43 (2018).59. Astudillo- García, C. et al. Evaluating the core microbiota in complex communities: a systematic investigation. Environ. Microbiol. 19, 1450–1462 (2017).60. Yeoh, Y. K. et al. Evolutionary conservation of a core root microbiome across plant phyla along a tropical soil chronosequence. Nat. Commun. 8, 215 (2017).61. Garrido- Oter, R. et al. Modular traits of the rhizobiales root microbiota and their evolutionary relationship with symbiotic rhizobia. Cell Host Microbe 24,  155–167 (2018).62. Agler, M. T . et al. Microbial hub taxa link host  and abiotic factors to plant microbiome variation. PLoS Biol. 14, e1002352 (2016).  This study demonstrates the presence of highly interconnected ‘hub species’ in microbial networks that act as mediators between a host and its associated microbiome.63. Muller, E. E. et al. Using metabolic networks to resolve ecological properties of microbiomes. Curr. Opin. Sys. Biol. 8, 73–80 (2018).64. Röttjers, L. & Faust, K. From hairballs to hypotheses — biological insights from microbial networks.  FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 42, 761–780 (2018).65. Shade, A., Jacques, M. A. & Barret, M. Ecological patterns of seed microbiome diversity, transmission, and assembly. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 37, 15–22 (2017).66. Gloria, T . C. et al. Functional microbial features driving community assembly during seed germination and emergence. Front. Plant Sci. 9, 902 (2018).67. Wei, Z. et al. Initial soil microbiome composition and functioning predetermine future plant health. Sci. Adv.  5, eaaw0759 (2019).68. Tian, B. et al. Beneficial traits of bacterial endophytes belonging to the core communities of the tomato  root microbiome. Agric. Ecosys. Env. 247, 149–156 (2017).69. Lau, J. A. & Lennon, J. T . Rapid responses of soil microorganisms improve plant fitness in novel environments. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA. 109, 14058–14062 (2012).70. Gehring, C. A., Sthultz, C. M., Flores- Rentería, L., Whipple, A. V. & Whitham, T . G. T ree genetics  defines fungal partner communities that may confer drought tolerance. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 114, 11169–11174 (2017).71. Zhang, Y. et al. Huanglongbing impairs the rhizosphere-   to-rhizoplane enrichment process of the citrus root-  associated microbiome. Microbiome 5, 97 (2017).72. Knief, C. et al. Metaproteogenomic analysis of microbial communities in the phyllosphere and rhizosphere of rice. ISME J. 6, 1378–1390 (2012).73. Jiménez Bremont, J. F. et al. Physiological and molecular implications of plant polyamine metabolism during biotic interactions. Front. Plant Sci. 5, 95 (2014).74. Busk, P . K. & Lange, L. Classification of fungal and bacterial lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases.  BMC Genomics 16, 368 (2015).75. T rivedi, P ., Anderson, I. C. & Singh, B. K. Microbial modulators of soil carbon storage: integrating genomic and metabolic knowledge for global prediction. T rends Microbiol. 21, 641–651 (2013).76. Jiang, X. et al. Impact of spatial organization on a novel auxotrophic interaction among soil microbes. ISME J. 12, 1443–1456 (2018).77. Blair, P . M. et al. Exploration of the biosynthetic potential of the Populus microbiome. mSystems 3, e00045–18 (2018).78. Sessitsch, A. et al. Functional characteristics of an endophyte community colonizing rice roots as revealed by metagenomic analysis. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 25, 28–36 (2012).79. Han, G. Z. Origin and evolution of the plant immune system. New Phytol. 222, 70–83 (2019).80. Eitas, T . K. & Dangl, J. L. NB- LRR proteins: pairs, pieces, perception, partners, and pathways.  Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 13, 472–477 (2010).81. Hardoim, P . R. et al. The hidden world within plants: ecological and evolutionary considerations for defining functioning of microbial endophytes. Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 79, 293–320 (2015).82. McCann, H. C. et al. Origin and evolution of the kiwifruit canker pandemic. Genome Biol. Evol. 9, 932–944 (2017).83. Berendsen, R. L. et al. Disease- induced assemblage  of a plant- beneficial bacterial consortium. ISME J. 12, 1496–1507 (2018).84. Kwak, M. J. et al. Rhizosphere microbiome structure alters to enable wilt resistance in tomato. Nat. Biotechnol. 36, 1100–1109 (2018).  This study demonstrates that the disease resistance traits of plant varieties are conferred by selective assembly of a native microbiota to rescue a plant from fungal invasion.85. Mendes, L. W., Raaijmakers, J. M., de Hollander, M., Mendes, R. & T sai, S. M. Influence of resistance breeding in common bean on rhizosphere microbiome composition and function. ISME J. 12, 212–224 (2019).86. Carrión, V. J. et al. Pathogen- induced activation of disease- suppressive functions in the endophytic root microbiome. Science 366, 606–612 (2019).  This study demonstrates a microbiome- mediated, multitiered defence system against fungal pathogens, in which the first defence layer is formed by the rhizosphere microbiota; any subsequent attempt to colonize the plant root activates a second layer of defence through plant endophytes that produce antifungal compounds, including effectors, enzymes and antibiotics.87. Helfrich, E. J. et al. Bipartite interactions, antibiotic production and biosynthetic potential of the Arabidopsis leaf microbiome. Nat. Microbiol. 3,  909–919 (2018).88. Rutherford, S. T . & Bassler, B. L. Bacterial quorum sensing: its role in virulence and possibilities for its control. Cold Spring Harb. Perspect. Med. 2, a012427 (2012).89. Hartmann, A. & Schikora, A. Plant responses to bacterial quorum sensing molecules. Front. Plant Sci.  6, 643 (2015).90. Mousa, W. K. et al. Root- hair endophyte stacking in finger millet creates a physicochemical barrier to  trap the fungal pathogen Fusarium graminearum. Nat. Microbiol. 1, 16167 (2016).91. T rivedi, P ., Spann, T . & Wang, N. Isolation and characterization of beneficial bacteria associated with citrus roots in Florida. Microb. Ecol. 62, 324–336 (2011).92. Chagas, F. O. et al. Chemical signaling involved in plant–microbe interactions. Chem. Soc. Rev. 47, 1652–1704 (2018).93. Schmidt, R. et al. Fungal volatile compounds induce production of the secondary metabolite Sodorifen in Serratia plymuthica PRI-2C. Sci. Rep. 7, 862 (2017).94. Korenblum, E. et al. Rhizosphere microbiome mediates systemic root metabolite exudation by  root- to-root signaling. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 117, 3874–3883 (2020).95. Russell, A. B., Peterson, S. B. & Mougous, J. D. T ype VI secretion system effectors: poisons with a purpose. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 12, 137–148 (2014).96. Bernal, P ., Llamas, M. A., Filloux, A. & T ype, V. I. Secretion systems in plant- associated bacteria. Environ. Microbiol. 201, 15–72 (2018).97. Speare, L. et al. Bacterial symbionts use a type VI secretion system to eliminate competitors in their natural host. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115, E8528–E8537 (2018).98. Vorholt, J. A., Vogel, C., Carlström, C. I. & Mueller, D. B. Establishing causality: opportunities of synthetic communities for plant microbiome research. Cell Host Microbe 22, 142–155 (2019).99. Cordovez, V., Dini- Andreote, F., Carrión, V. J. & Raaijmakers, J. M. Ecology and evolution of plant microbiomes. Ann. Rev. Microbiol. 73, 69–88 (2019).100. Hestrin, R., Hammer, E. C., Mueller, C. W. &  Lehmann, J. Synergies between mycorrhizal fungi and soil microbial communities increase plant nitrogen acquisition. Commun. Biol. 2, 233 (2019).101. Averill, C., Bhatnagar, J. M., Pearse, W. D. & Kivlin, S. N. Global imprint of mycorrhizal fungi on whole- plant nutrient economics. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 116, 23163–23168 (2019).102. Lu, T . et al. Rhizosphere microorganisms can influence the timing of plant flowering. Microbiome 6, 231 (2018).103. Bodenhausen, K. et al. Petunia- and Arabidopsis-  specific root microbiota responses to phosphate supplementation. Phytobiomes J. 3, 112–124 (2019).104. Almario, J. et al. Root- associated fungal microbiota of nonmycorrhizal Arabis alpina and its contribution to plant phosphorus nutrition. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA  114, E9403–E9412 (2017).105. Hacquard, S. et al. Survival trade- offs in plant roots during colonization by closely related beneficial and pathogenic fungi. Nat. Commun. 7, 1–13 (2016).106. Voges, M. J., Bai, Y., Schulze- Lefert, P . & Sattely, E. S. Plant- derived coumarins shape the composition of an Arabidopsis synthetic root microbiome. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 116, 12558–12565 (2019).  This study demonstrates that the production of secondary metabolites produced by plants under stress conditions acts as a signalling mechanism  to sculpt the rhizosphere microbiome.107. Stringlis, I. A. et al. MYB72-dependent coumarin exudation shapes root microbiome assembly to promote plant health. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115, E5213–E5222 (2018).108. Martínez- Medina, A., Van Wees, S. C. & Pieterse, C. M. Airborne signals from T richoderma fungi stimulate iron uptake responses in roots resulting in priming  of jasmonic acid- dependent defenses in shoots of Arabidopsis thaliana and Solanum lycopersicum. Plant Cell Env. 40, 2691–2705 (2017).109. Penton, C. R. et al. Fungal community structure in disease suppressive soils assessed by 28S LSU gene sequencing. PLoS ONE 9, e93893 (2014).110. Cha, J. Y. et al. Microbial and biochemical basis of a Fusarium wilt- suppressive soil. ISME J. 10, 119–129 (2016).111. Hol, W. G. et al. Non- random species loss in bacterial communities reduces antifungal volatile production. Ecology 96, 2042–2048 (2015).www.nature.com/nrmicroReviews620 | November 2020 | volume 18 112. Carrión, V. J. et al. Involvement of Burkholderiaceae and sulfurous volatiles in disease- suppressive soils. ISME J. 12, 2307–2321 (2018).113. Chialva, M. et al. Native soils with their microbiotas elicit a state of alert in tomato plants. New Phytol.  220, 1296–1308 (2018).114. Peralta, A. L., Sun, Y., McDaniel, M. D. & Lennon, J. T . Crop rotational diversity increases disease suppressive capacity of soil microbiomes. Ecosphere 9, e02235 (2018).115. Kesten, C. et al. Pathogen- induced pH changes regulate the growth–defense balance of plants.  EMBO J. 16, e101822550491 (2019).116. Yuan, J. et al. Root exudates drive the soil- borne legacy of aboveground pathogen infection. Microbiome 6, 56 (2018).117. Hu, L. et al. Root exudate metabolites drive plant- soil feedbacks on growth and defense by shaping the rhizosphere microbiota. Nat. Commun. 9, 2738 (2018).118. Kong, H. G., Song, G. C. & Ryu, C. M. Inheritance of seed and rhizosphere microbial communities through plant–soil feedback and soil memory. Environ. Microbiol. Rep. 11, 479–486 (2019).119. Fitzpatrick, C. R., Mustafa, Z. & Viliunas, J. Soil microbes alter plant fitness under competition and drought. J. Evol. Biol. 32, 438–450 (2019).120. Eida, A. A. et al. Desert plant bacteria reveal host influence and beneficial plant growth properties.  PLoS ONE 13, e0208223 (2018).121. Naylor, D. & Coleman- Derr, D. Drought stress and root- associated bacterial communities. Front. Plant Sci. 8, 2223 (2018).122. Xu, L. et al. Drought delays development of the sorghum root microbiome and enriches for monoderm bacteria. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 115, E4284–E4293 (2018).  Using a multi-‘omics’ approach, this study demonstrates selective enrichment of monoderms (bacteria with a thick cell wall) that possess transporters connected with specialized metabolites produced by plants under drought stress.123. Timm, C. M. et al. Abiotic stresses shift belowground Populus- associated bacteria toward a core stress microbiome. mSystems 3, e00070-17 (2018).124. Wagner, M. R. et al. Natural soil microbes alter flowering phenology and the intensity of selection on flowering time in a wild Arabidopsis relative. Ecol. Lett.  17, 717–726 (2014).125. Ravanbakhsh, M., Sasidharan, R., Voesenek, L. A., Kowalchuk, G. A. & Jousset, A. Microbial modulation of plant ethylene signaling: ecological and evolutionary consequences. Microbiome 6, 52 (2018).126. Giauque, H., Connor, E. W. & Hawkes, C. V. Endophyte traits relevant to stress tolerance, resource use and habitat of origin predict effects on host plants. New Phytol. 221, 2239–2249 (2019).127. Kudjordjie, E. N., Sapkota, R., Steffensen, S. K., Fomsgaard, I. S. & Nicolaisen, M. Maize synthesized benzoxazinoids affect the host associated microbiome. Microbiome 7, 59 (2019).128. Zhalnina, K. et al. Dynamic root exudate chemistry and microbial substrate preferences drive patterns  in rhizosphere microbial community assembly.  Nat. Microbiol. 3, 470 (2018).129. Huang, A. C. et al. A specialized metabolic network selectively modulates Arabidopsis root microbiota. Science 364, eaau6389 (2019).130. McCann, H. C., Nahal, H., Thakur, S. & Guttman, D. S. Identification of innate immunity elicitors using molecular signatures of natural selection. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 109, 4215–4220 (2012).131. Hacquard, S., Spaepen, S., Garrido- Oter, R. &  Schulze- Lefert, P . Interplay between innate immunity and the plant microbiota. Ann. Rev. Phytopathol. 55, 565–589 (2017).132. Chen, H. et al. One- time nitrogen fertilization shifts switchgrass soil microbiomes within a context of  larger spatial and temporal variation. PLoS ONE 14, e0211310 (2019).133. T rivedi, P . et al. Soil aggregation and associated microbial communities modify the impact of agricultural management on carbon content.  Environ. Microbiol. 19, 3070–3086 (2017).134. Hartman, K. et al. Cropping practices manipulate abundance patterns of root and soil microbiome members paving the way to smart farming. Microbiome 6, 14 (2018).135. Banerjee, S. et al. Agricultural intensification reduces microbial network complexity and the abundance of keystone taxa in roots. ISME J. 13, 1722–1736 (2019).AcknowledgementsP .T and J.E.L. were partially supported by funding from Colorado Agricultural Experiment Station; S.G.T. works at the US Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute and is sup-ported by contract no. DE- AC02-05CH11231; B.K.S. is  supported by the Australian Research Council (DP170104634).  T .S. is supported by National Research Foundation of Korea (2015R1A2A1A05001885).Author contributionsP.T. researched data for the article. P.T., J.E.L., S.G.T., T.S.  and B.K.S. contributed substantially to the discussion  of the content. P .T ., J.E.L., S.G.T ., T .S. and B.K.S. wrote the article.Competing interestsThe authors declare no competing interests.Publisher’s noteSpringer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.Supplementary informationSupplementary information is available for this paper at https://doi.org/10.1038/s41579-020-0412-1. © Springer Nature Limited 2020, corrected publication 2020  NATure revIeWS | MicroBioloGyReviews  volume 18 | November 2020 | 621