Citation: Rai, T.; Lee, N.; Williams,M., II; Davis, A.; Villamil, M.B.;Dokoohaki, H. ProbabilisticAssessment of Cereal Rye Cover CropImpacts on Regional Crop Yield andSoil Carbon. Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176.https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010176Academic Editor: Ciro AntonioRosolemReceived: 15 November 2022Revised: 19 December 2022Accepted: 4 January 2023Published: 10 January 2023Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).agriculture ArticleProbabilistic Assessment of Cereal Rye Cover Crop Impacts onRegional Crop Yield and Soil CarbonTeerath Rai1,*, Nicole Lee1, Martin Williams II2, Adam Davis1, Mar ía B. Villamil1and Hamze Dokoohaki11Department of Crop Sciences, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA2Global Change and Photosynthesis Research Unit, United States Department of Agriculture-AgriculturalResearch Service, Urbana, IL 61801, USA*Correspondence: tsrai@illinois.eduAbstract: Field research for exploring the impact of winter cover crops (WCCs) integration intocropping systems is resource intensive, time-consuming and offers limited application beyond thestudy area. To bridge this gap, we used the APSIM model, to simulate corn ( Zea mays L.)-rye ( Secalecereale L.)-corn-rye and corn-rye-soybean ( Glycine max L.)-rye rotations in comparison with corn-corn and corn-soybean rotations across the state of Illinois at a spatial resolution of 5 km 5 kmfrom 2000 to 2020 to study the impact of WCCs on soil organic carbon (SOC) dynamics and cropproduction. By propagating the uncertainty in model simulations associated with initial conditions,weather, soil, and management practices, we estimated the probability and the expected value ofchange in crop yield and SOC following WCC integration. Our results suggest that integrating cerealrye into the crop rotations imparted greater yield stability for corn across the state. It was foundthat the areas with low probability of increase in SOC ( p< 0.75) responded equally well for soilcarbon sequestration through long term adoption of WCCs. This study presents the most completeuncertainty accounting of WCC beneﬁts across a broad region and provides greater insights into thespatiotemporal variability of WCCs beneﬁts for increasing WCC adoption rate.Keywords: APSIM; cereal rye; regional crop modeling; cover crops; carbon sequestration; yieldstability1. IntroductionCorn ( Zea mays L.) and soybean ( Glycine max L.) production in the U.S. Midwest is anundeniably vital component of U.S. and global food systems, accounting for more than80% of national and 25–30% of global output for these commodities [ 1]. Agricultural landsare typically fallowed in the winter months in the U.S Midwest following intense summergrowing seasons. This setup poses signiﬁcant agronomic and environmental challengessuch as water quality issues across the U.S Midwest [ 2,3] and the formation of the hypoxiczone in the Gulf of Mexico. Adopting conservation agricultural practices through integratednutrient management and complex crop rotations has been reported to overcome some ofthe challenges with respect to nutrient recycling and enhance carbon sequestration [ 4,5].Another common tool that can play a key role in soil conservation and future carbonmarkets is the integration of winter cover crops into current rotations [ 6,7]. Some ofthe widely reported beneﬁts of WCCs include soil organic matter (SOM) enhancement,improved soil inﬁltration rates, and most importantly, reduction in nutrient losses andsoil erosion [ 8]. The associated beneﬁts greatly depend on the choice of WCC type, andcereal rye ( Secale cereale L.) is one of the most widely used species in U.S. productionsystems [ 9]. Additional advantages of cereal rye include its extreme cold-hardiness andability to produce considerable biomass, thus, making it a popular choice for protectingsoil in intensive cropping systems in the U.S. Midwest [10].Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010176 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agricultureAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 2 of 21However, WCCs have not been widely adopted, largely due to considerable uncertain-ties regarding their economic, agronomic, and climate beneﬁts [ 11,12]. These uncertaintiesstem from the highly uncertain role of WCCs in altering the water and carbon dynamicsof cropping systems, which then impacts the subsequent cash crop and the farmer’s mainsource of income. For instance, a meta-analysis did not ﬁnd any statistically signiﬁcantdifference within the winter rye data relating WCCs with yield increases [ 13], while morerecent studies have even shown a six percent reduction in corn yield following a winter ryecover crop [ 14]. Advocacy programs for increasing WCCs adoption have been developedpartially due to the preliminary data suggesting an increase in soil carbon sequestrationand reduction in nitrate leaching as the two most important climate and environmentalservices of WCCs [ 12,15]. However, each of these beneﬁts is strongly dependent on theenvironment, as WCCs have also been shown to excessively take up water from soil inlow precipitation areas, potentially exacerbating the drought condition [ 16]. Further, littleis known about the capacity of WCCs to sequester carbon across different environments.Consequently, there are highly variable reports on the relationship between WCCs andcarbon sequestration in the literature, adding an extra layer of agronomic uncertainty.The majority of reported experiments [ 17,18] assessing the effect of WCCs on soil organiccarbon (SOC) were often conducted only for a few years, and given that annual rates ofincrease in SOC are greatest in the early years, it is likely that the current suggested rates ofSOC increase are substantially overestimated [ 19]. In addition, climate and environmentalservices of WCCs have been shown to have strong spatial and temporal uncertainty due toa multitude of environmental conditions and associated interactions between climate andthe processes that inﬂuence WCC growth and development [20].While small-plot research experiments are essential in a variety of cropping systemsacross the U.S Midwest, large scale and long term exploration of climate and agronomicbeneﬁts of WCCs is especially needed for different climates and environments. The lack ofregional and long term observational data on the performance of WCCs has hindered thefast-paced research required to provide necessary information to farmers for large-scaleadoption [ 21]. Process-based crop models such as the APSIM model (Agricultural Produc-tion Systems Simulator) [ 22] can ﬁll this gap by providing a system level representation ofdifferent soil and crop processes with explicit representation of crop genetics. APSIM is amodeling program with multiple biophysical modules based around, soil, weather, andmanagement. These pioneering models simulate complex cropping systems in an inter-nally consistent manner by conserving mass and energy [ 23,24] and have been extensivelyused in the literature to explore the complex interactions between G EM across theworld [ 25]. In the past, process-based crop models have been used to assess the impactof WCCs on crop production, soil water dynamics, and greenhouse gas emissions [ 26,27].However, most studies were limited to a single or few sites [ 1,28] and only one aspectof WCC impacts on soil and crop dynamics was explored. Consequently, most of thesestudies fall short of capturing the spatial variation in WCC impacts across broad regionsand miss the opportunity of identifying the drivers of this variation. Furthermore, most ofthe previous WCC modeling studies lack proper accounting of the uncertainties associatedwith model inputs and parameters such as weather, soil properties, and managementpractices. Therefore, such studies, although beneﬁcial for their local sites, are not reliablefor understanding the system at broader scales due to lack of generalizability. Consideringthe ample potential that WCCs hold, we provide the ﬁrst and most complete uncertaintyaccounting of WCCs’ potential impacts on improving crop yield and SOC sequestrationacross the state of Illinois. The main objectives of the current study are to: (a) constrainuncertainty in APSIM model parameters by calibrating and validating the APSIM-Wheatmodel for cereal rye; (b) quantify the potential for WCC biomass accumulation acrossthe state of Illinois; and (c) assess the impact of WCC integration on SOC and cash cropperformance.Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 3 of 212. Materials and Methods2.1. Study AreaThe study area for this crop modeling experiment was the entire state of Illinois, akey contributor to the U.S. Corn Belt (Figure 1). The average area under maize productionfor the study period of 2005 to 2020 was around 4.8 0.3 million ha, with an averageyield of 109291623 kg ha 1. Similarly, the average area under soybean productionin Illinois was estimated to be around 3.9 0.3 million ha, with an average yield of3486426 kg ha 1[29]. Across the study period, 2005 was the driest year with respect tocumulative seasonal precipitation (464 mm) (April–October), and 2019 was the wettest year(935 mm). The year 2010 recorded the hottest growing season (April–October) based onaverage daily temperatures, whereas 2009 was found to be the coldest.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 23   2. Materials and Methods 2.1. Study Area The study area for this crop modeling experi ment was the entire state of Illinois, a key contributor to the U.S. Corn Belt (Figure 1). The average area under maize production for the study period of 2005 to 2020 was around 4.8 ± 0.3 million ha, with an average yield of 10929 ± 1623 kg ha−1. Similarly, the average area under soybean production in Illinois was estimated to be around 3.9 ± 0.3 million ha, with an average yield of 3486 ± 426 kg ha−1 [29]Across the study period, 2005 was the driest year with respect to cumulative sea-sonal precipitation (464 mm) (April–October), and 2019 was the wettest year (935 mm). The year 2010 recorded the hottest growin g season (April–October) based on average daily temperatures, whereas 2009 was found to be the coldest.  Figure 1. Average cumulative seas onal precipitation ( a), and daily temperature ( b), during the growing season (April–October) from 2005 to 2020. 2.2. Simulation Setup 2.2.1. Modeling Platform The current study was based on APSIM v7.9 which is one of the most popular open-source cropping system models. The model ca n simulate various crops across diverse ge-ographical regions and their interactions with  soil and atmospheric conditions at a point scale at daily timesteps. As part of the input data, information on crop parameters, man-agement practices, soil properties, and weathe r is required for simulating crops in APSIM. The maize model in APSIM is based on the CERES-Maize model [30] , whereas soybean is simulated using the generic PLANT model native to the APSIM platform (for more infor-mation on APSIM, see https://www.apsim.in fo/; accessed on 15 April 2021). We used APSIM-Wheat, which also uses the PLANT module, as a proxy for simulating cereal rye and will be referred to as the ‘rye model’ hereafter. We used the parallel system for integrating impact models and sectors (pSIMS) [31] modeling platform to run APSIM simulations on  a regional scale which established a uni-form protocol for the aggregation and harm onization of input and output data. In Figure 1. Average cumulative seasonal precipitation ( a), and daily temperature ( b), during thegrowing season (April–October) from 2005 to 2020.2.2. Simulation Setup2.2.1. Modeling PlatformThe current study was based on APSIM v7.9 which is one of the most popular open-source cropping system models. The model can simulate various crops across diversegeographical regions and their interactions with soil and atmospheric conditions at apoint scale at daily timesteps. As part of the input data, information on crop parameters,management practices, soil properties, and weather is required for simulating crops inAPSIM. The maize model in APSIM is based on the CERES-Maize model [ 30], whereassoybean is simulated using the generic PLANT model native to the APSIM platform (formore information on APSIM, see https://www.apsim.info/; accessed on 15 April 2021).We used APSIM-Wheat, which also uses the PLANT module, as a proxy for simulatingcereal rye and will be referred to as the ‘rye model’ hereafter.We used the parallel system for integrating impact models and sectors (pSIMS) [ 31]modeling platform to run APSIM simulations on a regional scale which established auniform protocol for the aggregation and harmonization of input and output data. InAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 4 of 21addition, pSIMS enabled the parallel implementation of APSIM simulations on a largespatial grid and facilitated post-processing of the simulated data.2.2.2. Uncertainty PropagationTo account for all sources of uncertainty (i.e., model structure, parameters, and inputs)that contribute to the overall uncertainty in model predictions, we deﬁned ﬁve broaduncertainty classes that included initial conditions, soil, weather, management, and cropparameters (Table 1) [ 32]. We included uncertainty propagation in all steps performedin this study, including the sensitivity analysis, emulator generation, and ﬁnal regionalsimulations. In our study, pSIMS was set up to randomly choose a soil proﬁle from theavailable input data products [ 31]. The global soil dataset for earth system modeling(GSDE) [ 33] and the SoilGrid dataset [ 34] at a spatial resolution of 250 m were used toensemble soil properties. Weather uncertainty was incorporated through ten weatherensembles offered by the ERA5 reanalysis data product, a global gridded data productdeveloped by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts [ 35]. The ERA5weather data were available hourly at a spatial resolution of 30 km. Uncertainty aroundinitial conditions was propagated for residue type (corn or soybean), residue weight(kg ha 1), and water fraction (mm/mm) at the beginning of the simulation period. Formanagement practices, we accounted for uncertainty in planting date and harvesting date,as well as crop parameters to account for genetic background variability.Table 1. Uncertainty factors considered for simulating each scenario in long term simulations. Ustands for uniform distribution, and N stands for normal distribution.Name Options DeﬁnitionInitial Conditions Residue type (RT) RT ~ sample (corn, soybean)Residue weight (RW; kg ha 1) RW ~ U (100, 2500)Water fraction (WF) WF ~ U (0.05, 0.95)Soil GSDE/SoilGridWeather 10 ensembles from ERA5Management Planting date (pdate) pdate + N ( = 0,= sd(pdate))Harvesting date (hdate) hdate + N ( = 0,= sd(hdate))Rye seeding rate (plpop; seeds m 2) plpop ~ U (200, 500)Parameters Corn: Ensemble of 6 cultivar parametersSoybean: Ensemble of predeﬁned cultivars depending upon maturitygroup, based on latitude (30 total genotypes varying from MG 2 to MG 4)Rye: Ensemble of 7 optimized genotypes2.2.3. Multi-Site and Multi-Criteria Model Calibration and ValidationField data on cereal rye phenology and biomass were collected at 7 different sitesacross the U.S. Midwest from 2018 to 2019 (Figure 2). Cereal rye phenology was measuredusing Zadoks’ scale [ 36]. Field data, along with management inputs, were used to calibrateand validate the rye model.Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 5 of 21Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 23    Figure 2. Location of the field sites providing phenolo gy and biomass data used for the calibration of the cereal rye model. Model calibration was performed by, first, identifying crop parameters that con-trolled crop phenology and biomass accumulati on through a literature review [1,37–39] and a global sensitivity analysis (GSA). Rye phenology in APSIM is regulated by thermal time and is sensitive to photoperiodism and vernalization. Most crop models use radia-tion use efficiency (RUE) for predicting biomas s assimilation in cereal crops [39,40]. Since cereal rye and other winter hardy crops undergo vernalization during the winter, it may be more e ff ec tive  to  apply  diffe rent values  of  RUE at d if feren t s tage s o f the  c ereal r ye Figure 2. Location of the ﬁeld sites providing phenology and biomass data used for the calibration ofthe cereal rye model.Model calibration was performed by, ﬁrst, identifying crop parameters that controlledcrop phenology and biomass accumulation through a literature review [ 1,37–39] and aglobal sensitivity analysis (GSA). Rye phenology in APSIM is regulated by thermal timeand is sensitive to photoperiodism and vernalization. Most crop models use radiation useefﬁciency (RUE) for predicting biomass assimilation in cereal crops [ 39,40]. Since cerealrye and other winter hardy crops undergo vernalization during the winter, it may be moreeffective to apply different values of RUE at different stages of the cereal rye lifecycle. Totest this, we divided the cereal rye lifecycle at the crop stage code 4.0 (end of juvenile),Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 6 of 21which corresponds to the period when the temperature starts to rise during spring, andassigned a separate RUE parameter to each period to allow for temporal variation in thisparameter. Moreover, the RUE parameter value for the APSIM-Wheat model [ 39] is muchlower than what is likely required for cereal rye [ 40]. Therefore, by introducing temporalvariations in RUE and performing a GSA analysis, we can see which RUE time period ismore important for cereal rye calibration (Figure S1). In the sensitivity analysis, we selecteda set of 9 parameters that directly controlled phenology, biomass, or both, and evaluated thesensitivity of those state variables to changes in values of the selected parameters (Table 2).Table 2. Parameters selected for sensitivity analysis and calibration of cereal rye phenology andbiomass in APSIM.Parameter Description Default ValuePriors forCalibrationpesw_germ *Plant extractable soil water inseedling layer inadequate forgermination (mm/mm)0.00 ~N ( = 0.15, = 1)tt_end_of_juvenile *The potential period fromend of juvenile stage toterminal spikelet stage (Cd)400 ~N ( = 400, = 25)tt_ﬂoral_initiationThe potential period fromﬂoral initiation ﬂoweringstage (Cd)555vern_sens * Vernalization sensitivity 1.5 ~N ( = 5,= 2)photop-sens * Photoperiod sensitivity 3.0 ~N ( = 5,= 2)y_rue1 (fall)Radiation use efﬁciency forfall (g MJ 1)1.24y_rue2 (spring) *Radiation use efﬁciency forspring (g MJ 1)1.24 ~N ( = 2.98, = 1)x_ave_temp1Lower bound of the meandaily temperature wherephotosynthesis is nothindered (C)10x_ave_temp2Upper bound of the meandaily temperature wherephotosynthesis is nothindered (C)25Note: * represents the parameter selected for calibration after sensitivity analysis.An ANOVA-based GSA was conducted by taking 900 random samples from theparameter space, running the APSIM model over the 900 points across all sites, anddecomposing the variability explained by each parameter to determine the most inﬂuentialparameters [ 41]. A sensitivity index was then calculated for each parameter based on thesum of squared errors (SSQ) as follows:Main e f f ect sensitivity indices :S1=SSQ 1SSQ T;S2=SSQ 2SSQ TInteraction sensitivity indices :S12=SSQ 12SSQ TTotal sensitivity indices :TS1=SSQ 1+SSQ 12SSQ Twhere SSQ kis the sum of squares associated with the factor k, and SSQ Tis the total sum ofsquares for a given variable.Rather than using APSIM to optimize the most inﬂuential parameters, we used statis-tical surrogate models (emulators) to replace APSIM. Emulators are fast statistical modelsthat can closely replicate process-based crop models in a more constrained inference spaceAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 7 of 21while also providing ﬂexibility for performing more computationally expensive optimiza-tion schemes, such as Bayesian approaches [42].After identifying the most inﬂuential parameters, 500 knots were randomly selectedfrom the new parameter space to generate emulators for each of the seven sites. APSIMwas run at each knot, and model outputs of phenology and biomass were used to buildgeneralized additive models (GAMs) as site-level emulators to simulate biomass andphenology as a function of the most sensitive parameters. Emulators were developed in Rstatistical software [43] using the ‘mcgv’ package [44].The emulators were then used in a multicriteria global Bayesian optimization schemeto constrain the parameters using all observations across all sites. Model calibration andvalidation was performed using a leave-one-out cross validation scheme, where a modelwas trained for cereal rye biomass and phenology simultaneously at six sites and tested onthe outputs of the remaining seventh site. Posterior densities of model parameters wereestimated via the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method with 5000 iterations and500 burn-in iterations using the R package NIMBLE [ 45,46]. The Bayesian models weredeﬁned as:mN(m0,t)YpkN(fp(m),s)YbkN(fb(m),s)where m0is a vector of mean model parameter with tcapturing the variation from trueparameters, Ypkand Ybkare, respectively, the phenology and biomass observation collectedat different times and across different sites that are a function of the mean model parametervalue, and f()is the emulator. The priors were deﬁned based on reported values in theliterature (Table 2).To compare model performance, we compared the predicted values of cereal ryeZadok stage and biomass with the observed data by estimating index of agreement ( d),mean error ( ME) and normalized root mean square error ( nRMSE ) [47], as:d=1 å(yi xi)2å(jyi xj+jxi yj)2ME =å(yi xi)nnRMSE =RMSEx100where yiis the predicted value, xiis the observed value, nis the number of observations,and xis the mean of observed data. The aim of the calibration was to maximize thelikelihood of observing both phenology and biomass at testing sites simultaneously, whichwe expected to yield a higher value of d, while reducing MEand nRMSE .2.3. Long Term SimulationsThe goal of the long term model runs was to simulate the potential impact of WCCson crop performance and SOC when integrated into different crop rotations. The modelingplatform can operate at much ﬁner or coarser spatial scales, but there is a tradeoff betweenthe spatial resolution and computation time. To avoid the computational constraints ofﬁner scales, the spatial resolution of this modeling study was set at 5 km 5 km across thewhole cropland area in the state of Illinois. Simulations were performed from 2000 to 2020,where the period from 2000 to 2004 served as a spin-up period to allow for the model toreach equilibrium. All results presented in later sections will focus on simulations from2005 to 2020. Since the goal was to explore the potential beneﬁts of a cereal rye cover cropacross the region, we did not simulate the exact historic crop rotations at each pixel. Instead,we applied 4 different rotations across the study area, simulating continuous corn (CC) andAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 8 of 21corn–soybean (CS) rotations with and without WCCs. The crop rotations that includedWCCs were corn–cereal rye-corn-cereal rye (CRCR), and corn-cereal rye-soybean-cereal rye(CRSR).There exists signiﬁcant uncertainty in the WCC management decisions, as cereal ryeis expected to have a negative impact on corn yield and no impact on soybean yield [ 48].Hence, in our simulation study, cereal rye preceding corn was terminated 14 days priorto cash crop planting, and cereal rye preceding soybean was terminated one day priorto cash crop planting. Hence, we simulated 4 different scenarios of crop rotation for thisstudy. Each scenario consisted of 50 ensemble members to account for the uncertaintyaround various factors as described in Table 1. Cover crop planting was carried out one dayafter cash crop harvesting. Therefore, any uncertainty in the harvesting date of cash cropsautomatically adds to the uncertainty around WCC planting date. For crop managementoperations, planting dates for corn and soybean were obtained from the Agricultural ModelIntercomparison and Improvement Project (AGMIP) data product [ 49]. The amount ofnitrogen (N) fertilizer added to corn was also obtained from the AGMIP gridded dataproduct, whereas no fertilizer was applied to soybean. The crop parameters controllingcorn growth and development were taken from [ 50]. To account for the soybean maturitygroup (MG) gradient that varies from north to south, soybean cultivars were ensembledfor each pixel depending on the latitude [ 51]. Pixels north of 41.43N were planted withensembles of MG 2 cultivars deﬁned in the APSIM model, and all pixels south of 39.27Nwere planted with ensembles of MG 4 cultivars. Any pixels between the two mentionedlatitudes were planted with MG 3 ensembles.2.4. Statistical AnalysisTo compare the impact of WCCs on SOC and crop performance simulated by themodel, we estimated the difference between ensemble means of CC with CRCR, and CSwith CRSR across all pixels and years. To incorporate the uncertainty estimated aroundmean predictions, we calculated the probability and expected value of change in SOCand yield across different scenarios. With respect to SOC, assuming the mean differencefollowed a normal distribution, we estimated the probability of observing a mean differenceto be greater than 0 ( pSOC ). Based on the estimated probability, we calculated the expectedchange in SOC for each pixel across all the years as:ESOC =DSOCpSOCSOC ctrl100where ESOC is the expected percentage change in SOC due to the addition of WCCs to therotation, DSOCis the difference between means of control and treatment ensembles, andSOC ctrlis the mean SOC for control (CC or CS rotation). The estimated pSOC and ESOCwere then divided into different categories, high and low probability, and expected value.Through classiﬁcation, we generated a grid of 4 classes, namely: (i) low pSOC, low ESOC(Class 1); (ii) low pSOC , high ESOC (Class 2); (iii) high pSOC , low ESOC (Class 3); and(iv) high pSOC , high ESOC (Class 4), that aided in geographical mapping of the region. Thesame process of estimating probabilities and expected change was repeated for corn andsoybean yields to estimate probability for the increase in crop yield to be greater than 0when WCC is integrated into the rotation (pY), and the expected change in crop yield (EY).Next, a yield stability index ( YSI) was estimated for crop performance by taking the ratioof coefﬁcient of variation ( CV) for control to the CVfor treatment, asCV=smYSI =CVctrlCVtrtAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 9 of 21where sis the standard deviation, and mis the mean crop yield. The YSIgreater than 1can be interpreted as an expression of greater variation in the control treatment, and viceversa. The areas with YSIgreater than 1 depict regions where WCCs have imparted greaterstability to the crop yield.3. Result3.1. Sensitivity Analysis, Model Calibration and ValidationThe results of our GSA identiﬁed ‘pesw_germ’ (i.e., the moisture requirement forgermination) was the most sensitive parameter, explaining around 19% of the variabilityin rye biomass and 20% of the variability in rye phenology (Figure S2). The next mostimportant parameter, which explained about 8% of the variability in rye biomass was‘y_rue2’, the RUE parameter value for spring. For variability on cereal rye phenology, otherimportant parameters included ‘tt_end_of_juvenile’ (thermal time from end of juvenilestage to terminal spikelet stage), ‘photop_sens’ (photoperiod sensitivity), and ‘vern_sens’(vernalization sensitivity). Our GSA analysis showed a relatively large leftover variation(Residuals in Figure S2) that was not explained by any of the examined parameters, repre-senting signiﬁcant interaction among all other factors and model parameters explainingrye phenology and biomass. This points to the need for additional observational data forconstraining leftover variation.Based on the results of the GSA, the rye model was calibrated by controlling both phe-nology and biomass simultaneously through optimizing the ﬁve most sensitive parameters,governing rye phenology and biomass accumulation. Crop parameters ‘pesw_germ’, ‘pho-top_vern’, and ‘vern_sens’ have previously been used for calibration of cereal rye biomassand phenology [ 38]. The resulting posterior distributions for the calibrated parametersare presented in Figure S3. Based on the comparison between the observed and predictedcereal rye data, the calibrated rye model performed well in capturing the phenology andbiomass accumulation across different sites. A reasonable agreement between observed andpredicted cereal rye phenology was observed with d= 0.66, ME= 5.03, and nRMSE = 17%(Figure 3). Similarly, predicted and observed biomass values showed good agreementwith d= 0.84, ME= 338 kg ha 1and nRMSE = 39%. The results of validation highlight aslight underprediction of growth stages, and an overprediction of biomass. Based on theestimated validation statistics, it can be stated that the rye model performed reasonablywell in capturing the growth stages and biomass accumulation across the region and canbe used for scenario analysis.3.2. Rye BiomassFor the CRCR rotation, cereal rye produced, on average, 11,793 kg ha 1of dry biomassover the study period. The lowest biomass was observed in the year 2005 (6987 kg ha 1),and the highest biomass was observed in 2012 (19,206 kg ha 1) (Figure S4). Greatervariation in cereal rye biomass was found for the CRSR rotation. Cereal rye preceding corn(CrC), on average, produced 4806 kg ha 1in dry biomass with the highest accumulation in2012 (6830 kg ha 1) and the lowest in 2010 (2949 kg ha 1). Cereal rye preceding soybean(CrS) produced greater biomass than CrC. The average biomass produced for CrS wasfound to be 17,878 kg ha 1, with the highest biomass simulated in 2017 (24,115 kg ha 1)and the lowest in 2005 (12,584 kg ha 1).We attempted to partition the rye biomass variability by considering variation inweather (seasonal precipitation, average daily temperature) and soil variables (soil texture,cation exchange capacity, pH). The most important factor which explained ~75% of theobserved variation in simulated cereal rye biomass was crop rotation, followed by latitude(17%). In comparison with the rye biomass produced in CRCR rotation, CRSR producedsigniﬁcantly lower rye biomass when rye preceded corn as indicated by a negative slope.The other major factors contributing to the variation in cereal rye biomass were cerealrye planting and termination dates, which were directly inﬂuenced by the cash cropplanting and harvesting dates. Since soybean was planted later than corn and WCCs wereAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 10 of 21terminated only 1 day prior to soybean planting, CrS had a longer growing period thanCrC and, thus, more time to accumulate biomass. The CrC biomass in CRSR rotation wasfound to be lower than rye biomass in the CRCR rotation for the corresponding years. Theprimary factor that contributed to lower biomass accumulation in CrC was that soybeanharvesting dates showed greater variation across the state, which increased uncertaintyaround planting dates for CrC. Hence the growing window for CrC was greatly reduced,which resulted in lower biomass accumulation.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 23   3. Result 3.1. Sensitivity Analysis, Model Calibration and Validation The results of our GSA identified ‘pesw_ge rm’ (i.e., the moisture requirement for germination) was the most sensitive parameter, explaining around 19% of the variability in rye biomass and 20% of the variability in rye phenology (Figure S2). The next most important parameter, which explained about 8% of the variability in rye biomass was ‘y_rue2’, the RUE parameter value for spring. For variability on cereal rye phenology, other important parameters included ‘tt_end_of _juvenile’ (thermal time from end of ju-venile stage to terminal spikelet stage), ‘photop_sens’ (photoperi od sensitivity), and ‘vern_sens’ (vernalization sensitivity). Our GSA analysis showed a relatively large lefto-ver variation (Residuals in Figure S2) that was not explained by any of the examined pa-rameters, representing significant interaction among all other factors and model parame-ters explaining rye phenology and biomass. Th is points to the need for additional obser-vational data for constraining leftover variation. Based on the results of the GSA, the rye model was calibrated by controlling both phenology and biomass simultaneously throug h optimizing the five most sensitive pa-rameters, governing rye phenology and bi omass accumulation. Crop parameters ‘pesw_germ’, ‘photop_vern’, and ‘vern_sens’ ha ve previously been used for calibration of cereal rye biomass and phenology [38]. The re sulting posterior distributions for the cali-brated parameters are presented in Figure S3. Based on the comparison between the ob-served and predicted cereal rye data, the calib rated rye model performed well in captur-ing the phenology and biomass accumulation across different sites. A reasonable agree-ment between observed and predicted cereal rye phenology was observed with d = 0.66, ME = −5.03, and nRMSE  = 17% (Figure 3). Similarly, predicted and observed biomass val-ues showed good agreement with d = 0.84, ME = 338 kg ha−1 and nRMSE  = 39%. The results of validation highlight a slight underpredict ion of growth stages, and an overprediction of biomass. Based on the estimated validation statistics, it can be stated that the rye model performed reasonably well in capturing the growth stages and biomass accumulation across the region and can be used for scenario analysis.  Figure 3. Model evaluation of cereal rye ( a) phenology, and ( b) biomass, following leave-one-out cross validation. Phenology data were collected on ce during the season and biomass samples were collected twice, once during the cereal rye growing season and then at the ti me of cover crop termi-nation. Different colors re present different sites. 3.2. Rye Biomass  Figure 3. Model evaluation of cereal rye ( a) phenology, and ( b) biomass, following leave-one-out crossvalidation. Phenology data were collected once during the season and biomass samples were collectedtwice, once during the cereal rye growing season and then at the time of cover crop termination.Different colors represent different sites.Irrespective of the crop rotation, the average cereal rye biomass produced over thestudy period followed a strong gradient from north to south (Figure 4). Maximum biomasswas produced in the southern areas of the state, and gradually declined northwards. Forfurther analysis, we divided rye biomass data into three distinct groups based on croprotation to quantify the impact of various weather and soil variables (Table 3). Latitudewas found to be the most signiﬁcant in rye biomass accumulation across the rotations.The signiﬁcant negative slopes for latitude under all scenarios suggested a decrease inbiomass accumulation from south to north, which validated the visual pattern. Our resultsaligned well with observations from other researchers who found that northern latitudestend to have a shorter growing season [ 52], thus, limiting biomass accumulation. Seasonalprecipitation (January–April) also expressed a negative slope on cereal rye biomass, suchthat higher precipitation reduced biomass accumulation. We speculate that this is due toreduced solar radiation received on high precipitation days in the spring, which is commonin the U.S Midwest. Soil characteristics, especially clay content, was found to be signiﬁcantunder the CRSR rotation for both phases and recorded a positive inﬂuence on rye biomass.3.3. Soil Organic CarbonSoil organic carbon simulated by the APSIM model in the top layer (0–45 cm) appearedto have beneﬁtted from the addition of WCCs to the crop rotation. Soil depth up to 45 cmwas selected to provide more comprehensive assessment of the SOC quantiﬁcation and wasbased on previous studies [ 53,54]. To quantify the impact of WCCs on carbon sequestration,we analyzed SOC data at 5 year intervals across the whole study area. We estimated theproportion of pixels that fell into different categories based on the observed median valuesfor probability of an increase in SOC (pSOC) and expected value of change in SOC (ESOC)in 2010, 2015, and 2020. pSOC values less than or equal to 0.75 were classiﬁed as lowAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 11 of 21representing a low probability of an increase in SOC, whereas pSOC values greater than0.75 were classiﬁed as high probability areas, as suggested by [ 55]. Similarly, for the ESOC,values lower than or equal to 15% were classiﬁed as low expected values, and valuesgreater than 15% were classiﬁed as high expected values, based on the difference estimatedbetween WCC and control treatments for SOC by [ 56]. For the CRCR rotation, 36% ofthe cropland area in 2010 was found to be under Class 1 when the total land area underthis class was reduced to 16% in 2015, and to 9% in 2020 (Figure 5, Table S1). Similarly,the percentage of area under Class 2 followed a similar trend. The area in Class 2 wasreduced from 29% in 2010 to 18% in 2015 and was estimated to be around 11% in 2020.The estimated area under Class 3 remained consistently low compared with other classes,starting from 3% in 2010 to 1% in 2020. On the other hand, the area under Class 4 increasedfrom 32% in 2010 to 64% in 2015. In 2020, the area for Class 4 under CRCR rotation wasestimated at around 79%, suggesting that at least 79% of croplands in the state of IL have thepotential to signiﬁcantly build up SOC with high probability of success following 16 yearsof incorporating cereal rye in corn–corn crop rotation. Interestingly, the majority of the areathat beneﬁtted from WCC integration under CRCR rotation the fastest was in the southernand western regions of the state which are often associated with lower quality soils.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 23   Note: Values in parenthesis represent slope for each  variable estimated by developing multiple lin-ear regression model; CRCR = corn-rye-corn-rye;  CRSR = corn-rye-soybean-rye; CrC = cereal rye preceding corn; CrS = cereal rye preceding soybean.  Figure 4.  Average cereal rye biomass (kg ha−1) across the state of Illinois for ( a) corn-rye-corn-rye, (b) rye preceding corn in corn-rye-soybean-rye, and ( c) rye preceding soybean in corn-rye-soybean-rye rotation. 3.3. Soil Organic Carbon  Soil organic carbon simulated by the APSIM model in the top layer (0–45 cm) ap-peared to have benefitted from the addition of WCCs to the crop rotation. Soil depth up to 45 cm was selected to provide more co mprehensive assessment of the SOC quantifica-tion and was based on previous studies [53,54]. To quantify the impact of WCCs on carbon sequestration, we analyzed SOC data at 5 year intervals across the whole study area. We estimated the proportion of pixels that fell into different categories  based on the observed median values for probability of an increase in SOC (pSOC) and expected value of change in SOC (ESOC) in 2010, 2015, and 2020. pSOC values less than or equal to 0.75 were clas-sified as low representing a low probability of an increase in SOC, whereas pSOC values greater than 0.75 were classified as high probability areas, as suggested by [55]. Similarly, for the ESOC, values lower than or equal to 15% were classified as low expected values, and values greater than 15% were classified as high expected values, based on the differ-ence estimated between WCC and control treatments for SOC by [56]. For the CRCR rota-tion, 36% of the cropland area in 2010 was found to be under Class 1 when the total land area under this class was reduced to 16% in 2015, and to 9% in 2020 (Figure 5, Table S1). Similarly, the percentage of area under Class 2 followed a similar trend. The area in Class 2 was reduced from 29% in 2010 to 18% in 2015 and was estimated to be around 11% in 2020. The estimated area under Class 3 rema ined consistently low compared with other classes, starting from 3% in 2010 to 1% in 2020. On the other hand, the area under Class 4 Figure 4. Average cereal rye biomass (kg ha 1) across the state of Illinois for ( a) corn-rye-corn-rye,(b) rye preceding corn in corn-rye-soybean-rye, and ( c) rye preceding soybean in corn-rye-soybean-ryerotation.For the CRSR rotation, 41% of the study area was estimated under Class 1 and 21%under Class 4 in 2010 (Figure 6, Table S2). However, the area under Class 1 reduced to 18%in 2015, and to 7% in 2020, whereas the area under Class 4 increased to 58% in 2015 and to82% in 2020. The simulated data signify the importance of crop biomass, both WCCs andcash crops, for increasing SOC. The combined area under Class 2 and Class 3 decreasedfrom 38% in 2010 to 11% in 2020. When observing the area under different classes for CRSR,the area that appears to have beneﬁtted most from CRSR is more uniformly distributedfrom north to south and slightly greater than that seen with CRCR.Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 12 of 21Table 3. Quantifying the variability explained (%) by various factors in cereal rye biomass underdifferent crop rotations.Variables CRCR (%) CRSR (%)CrC CrSLatitude 89 (  773) 67 (  207) 73 (  186)Precipitation 3 (  38) 1 (  8) 5 (  51)Temperature 2 (2077) 1 (646) 3 (2257)Clay - 7 (33) 5 (118)Sand - 2 (19) -CEC - 3 (138) -pH - 1 (701) -Residuals 5 17 9Note: Values in parenthesis represent slope for each variable estimated by developing multiple linear regressionmodel; CRCR = corn-rye-corn-rye; CRSR = corn-rye-soybean-rye; CrC = cereal rye preceding corn; CrS = cerealrye preceding soybean.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 23   increased from 32% in 2010 to 64% in 2015. In 2020, the area for Class 4 under CRCR rota-tion was estimated at around 79%, suggesting th at at least 79% of croplands in the state of IL have the potential to significantly build up SOC with high probability of success fol-lowing 16 years of incorporating cereal rye in  corn–corn crop rotation. Interestingly, the majority of the area that benefitted from WCC integration under CRCR rotation the fastest was in the southern and western regions of the state which are often associated with lower quality soils.  Figure 5. Probability and expected increase in SOC unde r corn-rye-corn-rye rotation compared with corn rotation in ( a) 2010, ( b) 2015, and ( c) 2020. ESOC > 15% is classified  as high and ESOC < 15% is classified as low, whereas pSOC > 0.75 is classified as high and pS OC < 0.75 is classified as low. For the CRSR rotation, 41% of the study area was estimated under Class 1 and 21% under Class 4 in 2010 (Figure 6, Table S2). However, the area under Class 1 reduced to 18% in 2015, and to 7% in 2020, whereas the area under Class 4 increased to 58% in 2015 and to 82% in 2020. The simula ted data signify the importan ce of crop biomass, both WCCs and cash crops, for increasing SOC. The combined area under Class 2 and Class 3 decreased from 38% in 2010 to 11% in 2020. When observing the area under different clas-ses for CRSR, the area that appears to have benefitted most from CRSR is more uniformly distributed from north to south and slightly greater than that seen with CRCR. Figure 5. Probability and expected increase in SOC under corn-rye-corn-rye rotation compared withcorn rotation in ( a) 2010, ( b) 2015, and ( c) 2020. ESOC > 15% is classiﬁed as high and ESOC < 15% isclassiﬁed as low, whereas pSOC > 0.75 is classiﬁed as high and pSOC < 0.75 is classiﬁed as low.On the temporal scale, a large proportion of the area that was converted to Class 4by the year 2015 was in the western and southern regions of the state. This suggeststhat WCC beneﬁts with respect to SOC can be harnessed earliest in these regions. Wespeculate that soil properties, weather conditions, rye biomass, and/or interactions of thesevariables were largely responsible for such SOC enhancement. By the year 2020, moreareas in the central region were classiﬁed as Class 4. Most of this new Class 4 area in thecentral region was previously classiﬁed as Class 2. Thus, our results indicate that areaswith higher expected change in SOC grow into areas with high probability areas as well,over time. The mean carbon sequestration rate was estimated to be 0.32 Mg C ha 1yr 1(1.19 Mg CO 2-eq ha 1yr 1)for the CRCR rotation and 0.23 Mg C ha 1yr 1(0.85 MgCO 2-eq ha 1yr 1) for the CRSR rotation, which was similar to those reported by [19].Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 13 of 21Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 23    Figure 6. Probability and expected increase in SOC unde r corn-rye-soybean-rye rotation compared with corn-corn rotation in ( a) 2010, ( b) 2015, and ( c) 2020. ESOC > 15% is classified as high and ESOC < 15% is classified as low, whereas pSOC > 0.75 is cl assified as high and pSOC < 0.75 is classified as low. On the temporal scale, a large proportion of the area that was converted to Class 4 by the year 2015 was in the western and southern regions of the state. This suggests that WCC benefits with respect to SOC can be harnessed earliest in these regions. We speculate that soil properties, weather conditions, rye biomass, and/or interactions of these variables were largely responsible for such SOC enhancem ent. By the year 2020, more areas in the central region were classified as Class 4. Most of this new Class 4 area in the central region was previously classified as Class 2. Thus, our results indicate that areas with higher ex-pected change in SOC grow into areas with high probability areas as well, over time. The mean carbon sequestration rate was estimated to be 0.32 Mg C ha−1 yr−1 (1.19 Mg CO 2-eq ha−1 yr−1) for the CRCR rotation and 0.23 Mg C ha−1 yr−1 (0.85 Mg CO 2-eq ha−1 yr−1) for the CRSR rotation, which was simila r to those reported by [19]. On further investigation, it appears that for the northern region of the state, CRSR is more beneficial than CRCR with respect to SOC enhancement. Although soybean did not contribute much residue biomass to the soil , it provided a greater growing window for cereal rye to grow in the spring. The CRCR ro tation did not allow for such a large growing window for cereal rye in the north, even th ough corn contributed significantly greater residue biomass compared with soybean. On the other hand, for the cereal rye grown prior to corn, especially in the CRCR rotation, we observed a strong biomass gradient towards the south (Figure 4). Therefore, the net amount of organic matter added to the soil, which included greater rye biomass along with the corn biomass, was much greater than that added during CRSR. Therefore, we speculate that a CRCR rotation offers greater chance of enhancing SOC than CRSR in the southern region of the state. 3.4. Crop Performance 3.4.1. Corn Figure 6. Probability and expected increase in SOC under corn-rye-soybean-rye rotation comparedwith corn-corn rotation in ( a) 2010, ( b) 2015, and ( c) 2020. ESOC > 15% is classiﬁed as high and ESOC< 15% is classiﬁed as low, whereas pSOC > 0.75 is classiﬁed as high and pSOC < 0.75 is classiﬁed aslow.On further investigation, it appears that for the northern region of the state, CRSR ismore beneﬁcial than CRCR with respect to SOC enhancement. Although soybean did notcontribute much residue biomass to the soil, it provided a greater growing window forcereal rye to grow in the spring. The CRCR rotation did not allow for such a large growingwindow for cereal rye in the north, even though corn contributed signiﬁcantly greaterresidue biomass compared with soybean. On the other hand, for the cereal rye grown priorto corn, especially in the CRCR rotation, we observed a strong biomass gradient towardsthe south (Figure 4). Therefore, the net amount of organic matter added to the soil, whichincluded greater rye biomass along with the corn biomass, was much greater than thatadded during CRSR. Therefore, we speculate that a CRCR rotation offers greater chance ofenhancing SOC than CRSR in the southern region of the state.3.4. Crop Performance3.4.1. CornUnlike SOC, crop performance is more likely to be independent from year to year.Therefore, in our analysis of crop performance, we summarized information across years.For corn, we aggregated the probability of yield increase (pY) and expected yield increase(EY) across all 16 years for the CRCR treatment and across the eight corn years for the CRSRtreatment. The aggregated results are presented in Figure 7. Aggregated pY varied from0.36 to 0.89, and EY varied from  2.4 to 69.7%. Based on the summary of aggregated data,pY less than or equal to 0.5 was categorized as low, and pY greater than 0.5 was categorizedas high. Similarly, aggregated EY less than or equal to 5% was classiﬁed as low, while EYgreater than 5% was classiﬁed as high. On average, only 6% of the area fell into Class 1(low pY and low EY) for corn production when grown under CRCR rotation while Class 4(dark green) occupied 63% of the area. Classes 2 and 3 on average occupied a combinedarea of around 31%. For the CRSR rotation, the Class 1 area was estimated to be around 3%,Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 14 of 21and Class 4 covered around 60% of the area. A combined area of around 37% was classiﬁedinto Class 2 or Class 3. The results suggest that, irrespective of the crop rotation, on averageWCCs beneﬁtted corn production on more than half of the area across the region (highpY and high EY). Similar to SOC, the area that beneﬁtted from the WCC integration wasconcentrated in the southern part of the state.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 23   Unlike SOC, crop performance is more likely to be independent from year to year. Therefore, in our analysis of crop performance, we summarized information across years. For corn, we aggregated the probability of yiel d increase (pY) and expected yield increase (EY) across all 16 years for the CRCR treatm ent and across the eight corn years for the CRSR treatment. The aggregated results are pr esented in Figure 7. Aggregated pY varied from 0.36 to 0.89, and EY varied from −2.4 to 69.7%. Based on the summary of aggregated data, pY less than or equal to 0.5 was categorized as low, and pY greater than 0.5 was categorized as high. Similarly, aggregated EY less than or equal to 5% was classified as low, while EY greater than 5% was classified as  high. On average, only 6% of the area fell into Class 1 (low pY and low EY) for corn production when grown under CRCR rotation while Class 4 (dark green) occupied 63% of the area. Classes 2 and 3 on average occupied a combined area of around 31%. For the CRSR rotation, the Class 1 area was estimated to be around 3%, and Class 4 covered around 60% of the area. A combined area of around 37% was classified into Class 2 or Class 3. The results suggest that, irrespective of the crop rotation, on average WCCs benefi tted corn production on more than half of the area across the region (high pY and high EY). Similar to  SOC, the area that benefitted from the WCC integration was concentrated in th e southern part of the state.  Figure 7. Probability of change and expected change in corn yield when cereal rye is integrated into(a) corn-corn, and ( b) corn-soybean rotation. EY > 5% is classiﬁed as high and EY < 5% is classiﬁed aslow, whereas pY > 0.50 is classiﬁed as high and pY < 0.50 is classiﬁed as low.Hence, to quantify the impact of various factors on the mean difference in corn yield,we partitioned the variation into various factors using a similar approach as discussedpreviously (Figure S5). Likewise, we also developed a linear model to assess the magnitudeand direction of impact of these factors on mean difference in corn yield between the controlgroup (CC and CS) and treatments (CRCR and CRSR) (Table S3). The ﬁndings of variancepartitioning suggested that latitude accounts for around 50% of the variability, followed bysand content of the soil, and rye biomass (3% each). Seasonal precipitation (April–October)was found to be a signiﬁcant predictor. However, it explained less than 1% of the variability.Most of the variables had a positive relationship with the mean difference, except forlatitude and seasonal precipitation. The negative slope for latitude suggested that the meandifference for corn yield reduced as we moved from south to north. Similarly, the negativeAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 15 of 21slope of seasonal precipitation implied that the mean difference in yield was alleviatedwith the increase in seasonal precipitation and was able to compensate for improved soilmoisture retention under cover crops.The YSI provided information about variation in crop yields (yield stability) whenWCCs were included in the crop rotations. Around 98% of the area reported YSI greaterthan 1 for the CRCR rotation when compared with CC rotation reﬂecting higher yieldstability in WCC simulations (Figure 8). Similarly, around 94% of the area recorded YSIgreater than 1 for CRSR rotation when compared with CS rotation. The aggregated YSI CRCRwas reportedly higher with a mean of 1.4 ranging from 0.3 to 2.3, compared with YSI CRSRfor eight corn years with a mean of 1.2 ranging from 0.4 to 2.3. The results of YSI analysissuggest that WCCs provide greater stability to corn yield over the long term comparedwith no cover crops. Contrary to the spatial pattern observed in rye biomass from northto south and SOC, no such trend was observed for yield stability in corn. Hence, whencomparing yield stability in WCC rotations versus non cover crop rotations, we speculatethat yield stability is not a function of rye biomass.Agriculture 2023 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 23    Figure 8. The ratio of coefficient of variation for ( a) corn-corn to corn-rye-corn-rye and ( b) corn-soybean to corn-rye-soybean-rye expresses as yiel d stability index (YSI) at each pixel when aggre-gated over the study period. 3.4.2. Soybean Similar to the corn yield analysis, for classifi cation of the probability of yield increase in soybean (pY), values less than or equal to 0.5 were classified as low probability, whereas values greater than 0.5 were classified as high probability. The average pY across regions varied from 0.44 to 0.59. Similarly, the expect ed value of yield increase (EY) less than or equal to 5% was categorized as low, and EY greater than 5% as high. The average EY varied from −2% to 15%. Soybean yield benefitted from the inclusion of WCCs as well, even when the WCCs were terminated just  one day before planting. When averaged across 8 years, 6% of the soybean production area was categorized as Class 1 and 38% was categorized as Class 4 (Figure S6). The remaining 56% was classified as Class 3. Similar to pY and EY, we did not observe any spatial patt ern for YSI in the case of soybean. It is evident from Figure S7, that there is great variation in YSI for soybean when WCCs are grown prior to soybean. The YSI value varied from 0.3 to 1.7 with an average value of 0.87. Although WCCs terminated just one day prior to soybean did not exhibit any penal-ties on crop yield, there was no clear pattern observed in the soybean performance due to Figure 8. The ratio of coefﬁcient of variation for ( a) corn-corn to corn-rye-corn-rye and ( b) corn-soybean to corn-rye-soybean-rye expresses as yield stability index (YSI) at each pixel when aggregatedover the study period.Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 16 of 213.4.2. SoybeanSimilar to the corn yield analysis, for classiﬁcation of the probability of yield increasein soybean (pY), values less than or equal to 0.5 were classiﬁed as low probability, whereasvalues greater than 0.5 were classiﬁed as high probability. The average pY across regionsvaried from 0.44 to 0.59. Similarly, the expected value of yield increase (EY) less than orequal to 5% was categorized as low, and EY greater than 5% as high. The average EY variedfrom 2% to 15%. Soybean yield beneﬁtted from the inclusion of WCCs as well, even whenthe WCCs were terminated just one day before planting. When averaged across 8 years,6% of the soybean production area was categorized as Class 1 and 38% was categorized asClass 4 (Figure S6). The remaining 56% was classiﬁed as Class 3. Similar to pY and EY, wedid not observe any spatial pattern for YSI in the case of soybean. It is evident from FigureS7, that there is great variation in YSI for soybean when WCCs are grown prior to soybean.The YSI value varied from 0.3 to 1.7 with an average value of 0.87.Although WCCs terminated just one day prior to soybean did not exhibit any penaltieson crop yield, there was no clear pattern observed in the soybean performance due to cerealrye. Part of the reason for an almost random trend could be that we did not consider differ-ent termination dates for cereal rye preceding soybean. It may be worthwhile to exploredifferent termination dates for cereal rye grown prior to soybean to better understand itseffect on crop performance. On a positive note, a large portion of the state was categorizedas Class 3, signifying a higher probability of change in crop yield, even if the expectedchange was lower. No area was classiﬁed under Class 2 (i.e., low probability but highexpected change) in the entire study area.4. DiscussionThe resulting posterior densities for the crop parameters optimized for simulationswere similar to values reported from prior numerical optimization schemes in the lit-erature [ 1,37,38]. Although the parameter ‘tt_end_of_juvenile’, which characterizes thethermal time from the end of juvenile stage to terminal spikelet stage, explained signif-icant variability in phenology during GSA, it exhibited substantial variation even afteroptimization. We speculate this was due to the difference in genotype (G) environment(E) interaction, and/or the inability of APSIM-Wheat to capture certain underlying pro-cesses in cereal rye phenology. Further investigation into unpacking the G E interactionswould require a signiﬁcantly larger dataset that includes explicit genetic information aboutdifferent cultivars over diverse environments. In previously conducted studies using AP-SIM [ 1,38], a relative root mean square error (RRMSE) of around 56% was reported aftercalibration when optimizing cereal rye biomass from 2002 to 2014 at a single site in Iowa,U.S. With increased available data, RRMSE of 23% for fall and 56% for spring biomass wasreported for the same site in Iowa [ 38]. In a similar attempt, RRMSE of just 11% for springbiomass was estimated when simulating cereal rye biomass for different planting dates ata single site in Nebraska, U.S. [ 57]. However, all the above-mentioned studies employednumerical optimization approaches and were limited in terms of number of sites, datatypes or uncertainty quantiﬁcation, potentially increasing the risk of overﬁtting and biasedestimation of WCC impacts. Since we applied Bayesian optimization for constrainingour model parameters, we were able to generate posterior distributions for crop growthparameters allowing us to quantify the uncertainty around model parameters originatingfrom various cereal rye genotypes and G E interactions.Due to the large spatial extent of the simulations, we observed substantial variation,both spatial and temporal, in the cereal rye biomass. However, when cereal rye precededsoybean, signiﬁcantly greater rye biomass was produced. The underlying process for suchvariation could potentially be management decisions with respect to cereal rye as discussedby [58], who studied the integration of cereal rye into a corn–soybean rotation in Iowa,U.S. and observed that low temperatures in the fall hindered cereal rye growth. Moreover,most of the biomass accumulation took place in the spring. For the above-mentioned study,soybean was planted within 7 days of cereal rye termination, whereas corn was planted atAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 17 of 21least 7 days after cereal rye termination. Thus, cereal rye preceding corn on average hadtwo fewer weeks to grow during spring compared with cereal rye preceding soybean.Additionally, there are several factors that inﬂuence SOC when WCCs are integratedinto crop rotations, but increased SOC as a function of increased carbon input to thesoil (above-ground biomass) is well documented [ 8]. Growing cereal rye in differentcombinations for a 2 y corn silage–soybean rotation in Iowa, U.S., enhanced SOM by15% at 0–5 cm depth, when rye was grown after both corn and soybean in comparisonwith the control with no rye treatment [ 59]. In our study, the southern areas of the stateproduced greater WCC biomass compared with the north regardless of crop rotation, andintuitively those areas reported higher SOC earlier in the simulations than low C inputareas. Although SOC enhancement due to WCCs was reported across the state, the timerequired for signiﬁcant soil carbon buildup was a major factor as well [ 60]. Increased SOCdue to WCCs is one of the mechanisms by which soil physical properties are improved [ 61].This point, however, highlights an important limitation in the APSIM model structuresince all soil physical properties including bulk density, hydraulic conductivity, etc., arenot dynamically updated as a function of time and management, but are kept constantduring the simulation. Therefore, future model improvements are essential for a betterrepresentation of change in soil physical properties due to WCC integration.Cover crop adoption in Illinois remains low, with only ~286,000 ha adopted for covercrops as reported by the 2017 census [ 62]. The major concern in WCC adoption is that WCCsreduce farm proﬁtability in the short term [ 63]. These losses can be usually supplementedby various cost-share programs [ 64] or the biomass can be used for alternative purposessuch as cattle grazing [ 25]. We suggest a precision WCC adoption strategy where we cansegregate and quantify the ecosystem services based on different agroclimatic districts ofthe region [ 65]. Our research suggests that most of the cropping area in the state of Illinoisis responsive to the beneﬁts that come with WCC adoption with potentially negligible yieldpenalties. However, our research showed that the southern counties in the state tendedto show promising results and faster carbon buildup, and may be given priority for covercrop adoption programs. However, results may vary since WCCs require a long termcommitment by producers, policymakers, and all other stakeholders. The United NationsFood and Agricultural Organization supported the Lima Paris Action Agenda which aimsat increasing the SOC stocks over current stocks by 0.4% annually to achieve sustainabledevelopment goals [ 66]. We did observe a 0.4% annual increase in SOC stocks for our entirestudy period and the estimated soil carbon sequestration rates (0.15–0.22 Mg C ha 1yr 1)were higher than those reported by [ 67]. This indicates that sole adoption of WCCs and notillage management has the potential to achieve sustainable development goals. However,from a practicality perspective, there may still exist constraints such as sink saturation, ornon-permanence of the beneﬁts once the practice is altered [21].The probability of observing corn yield differences varied signiﬁcantly across region,as discussed previously. However, we observed an overall positive effect of long term WCCadoption on corn production across IL despite variability in results. When aggregatedacross years, around 95% of the study area showed positive change in corn yield, whenCRCR was compared with CC. Similarly, when CRSR rotation was compared with theCS rotation, around 97% of the area reported a positive effect of incorporating WCC.Our results differ from those obtained by [ 28], as we did not observe yield penalties forcorn by inclusion of non-legume cover crops into the rotation. However, we speculatethat terminating cereal rye less than 14 days prior to corn planting may have differenteffect. Long term application of WCCs improved soil water retention at ﬁeld capacitywhen sand content in the WCC treatment was higher than the control [ 15]. However, theauthors credited increased SOC and improved soil aggregation due to WCCs with theimprovement in soil water retention. Our analysis suggests that sand content did havea positive relationship with crop performance. Further analysis would be required todistinguish between the effect of sand, soil water content and SOC on yield differences ofcorn, which is beyond the scope of this study, since we observed increased SOC due toAgriculture 2023 ,13, 176 18 of 21integration of WCCs (cereal rye) as well. Unlike corn, our results are in agreement withthose of [ 28] for soybean, as we did not observe any yield penalty due to non-legumeWCCs. Additionally, the current results suggest the need to further explore managementoptions for cereal rye preceding soybean.Ref. [ 68] emphasized the importance of adopting a wide array of management prac-tices including no-tillage, cover crops, integrated nutrient management, and precisionagriculture to prevent land degradation, while noting that agroforestry and biochar appli-cation can provide substantial soil carbon sequestration as alternatives to cover crops. Toprovide a perspective on such practices, the simulated impact of biochar application in acorn–corn system in Iowa reported a 4% increase in SOC after 30 years [ 69]. Similarly, asequestration rate of 0.3 Mg C ha 1yr 1with an integrated nutrient management strategywhere the recommended dose of nutrients applied through chemical fertilizers was supple-mented with 10 Mg ha 1of farmyard manure, under a soybean-wheat rotation in centralIndia, was reported [ 70]. The integrated nutrient management demonstrated signiﬁcantlyhigher carbon sequestration rate than relying exclusively on chemical fertilizers. Hence,depending solely on WCCs for ecological beneﬁts may not be in best interest of farmersand stakeholders in short-term.Considering some of the questions that were left unanswered during this study, thefocus of future studies should assess the impact of different cereal rye termination dateson crop performance, explore different agroclimatic zones for WCC adoption, and WCCbeneﬁts as a function of adoption rate and economic analysis. Apart from the current WCCstudy, we plan to evaluate the impact of various other cover crops species, such as legumes,using a similar methodology and similar temporal and spatial scales.5. ConclusionsOur results indicate that a well constrained APSIM model can be used to assess theimpact of cereal rye as WCC on a regional level. This work presents the most completeuncertainty accounting of the WCCs’ potential when integrated into common crop rotations(corn-corn and corn-soybean) across the entire cropping area in the state of Illinois. Theresults of this study indicated that there exists a strong gradient for cereal rye biomass acrossthe state with the north producing lower biomass compared with the south. Additionally,having soybean in the crop rotation provided a longer growing window for the cerealrye, thus, enabling greater biomass accumulation. Irrespective of the crop rotation, themajority of the cropping area was found to be responsive to cereal rye adoption with respectto SOC improvement. However, the SOC enhancement started in the southern parts ofthe state and followed to the northern parts towards the end of the 16 year simulationperiod. Corn and soybean yields beneﬁted from WCC integration as well, when comparedwith non-cover crop rotations. The APSIM modeling suggested that cover crop adoptioncan provide greater stability to corn production. Cover crops showed great promise insequestering carbon to tackle climate change and land degradation. Moving forward, morelocalized research by splitting the entire geographic region into various districts can revealnew insights into WCC adoption at such a large spatiotemporal scale.Supplementary Materials: The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/agriculture13010176/s1, Table S1: Probability and Expected increasein SOC under corn-rye-corn-rye rotation as compared to corn-corn rotation; Table S2: Probability andExpected increase in SOC under corn-rye-soybean-rye rotation as compared to corn-corn rotation;Table S3: Effect of various factors on corn yield as explained by linear regression model; Figure S1:APSIM implementation of the inﬂuence of cereal rye crop growth stage on radiation use efﬁciency;Figure S2: Global sensitivity analysis (GSA) to identify the most inﬂuential parameters controlling;Figure S3: Posterior distribution of parameters after calibration; Figure S4: Average cereal rye biomassproduction (kg ha 1) across 16 years; Figure S5: Quantiﬁcation of variability in corn yield as explainedby various factors (%); Figure S6: Probability of change and expected change in soybean yield whencereal rye is integrated into corn-soybean rotation; Figure S7: Yield stability index for soybean yieldacross Illinois for comparison of corn-soybean vs corn-rye-soybean-rye rotation.Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 19 of 21Author Contributions: Conceptualization, T.R. and H.D.; methodology, T.R. and H.D.; software, T.R.and H.D.; validation, T.R. and H.D.; formal analysis, T.R. and H.D.; investigation, T.R. and H.D.;resources, N.L., A.D. and M.W.II; data curation, N.L. and T.R.; writing—original draft preparation,T.R.; writing—review and editing, N.L., M.W.II, A.D., M.B.V . and H.D.; visualization, T.R. and H.D.;supervision, M.W.II, A.D., M.B.V . and H.D.; project administration, H.D.; funding acquisition, A.D.All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research was funded by the Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education GrantNo. LNC18-402, ‘A Decision Support Tool for Adaptive Management of Cereal Rye in No-till Organicand Conventional Soybeans’.Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from thecorresponding author.Acknowledgments: We would like to acknowledge the support from Fernando Miguez, Erin Silva,Léa Vereecke, Michael McDonald, Will Glazik, Benjamin Eaton, Kim Erndt-Pitcher, and the IDEAFarm Network whose contributions to this project made this work possible.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Basche, A.D.; Archontoulis, S.V .; Kaspar, T.C.; Jaynes, D.B.; Parkin, T.B.; Miguez, F.E. Simulating Long-Term Impacts of CoverCrops and Climate Change on Crop Production and Environmental Outcomes in the Midwestern United States. Agric. Ecosyst.Environ. 2016 ,218, 95–106. [CrossRef]2. Nolan, B.T.; Hitt, K.J. Vulnerability of Shallow Groundwater and Drinking-Water Wells to Nitrate in the United States. Environ.Sci. Technol. 2006 ,40, 7834–7840. [CrossRef]3. Cuadra, P .E.; Vidon, P . Storm Nitrogen Dynamics in Tile-Drain Flow in the US Midwest. Biogeochemistry 2011 ,104, 293–308.[CrossRef]4. Amadou, M.A.; Alhameid, A.; Singh, S.; Polat, A.; Singh, J.; Kumar, S.; Osborne, S. Responses of Soil Organic Carbon, AggregateStability, Carbon and Nitrogen Fractions to 15 and 24 Years of No-till Diversiﬁed Crop Rotations. Soil Res. 2019 ,57, 149. [CrossRef]5. Lal, R. A System Approach to Conservation Agriculture. J. Soil Water Conserv. 2015 ,70, 82A–88A. [CrossRef]6. Lal, R. Regenerative Agriculture for Food and Climate. J. Soil Water Conserv. 2020 ,75, 123A–124A. [CrossRef]7. Jackson Hammond, A.A.; Motew, M.; Brummitt, C.D.; DuBuisson, M.L.; Pinjuv, G.; Harburg, D.V .; Campbell, E.E.; Kumar, A.A.Implementing the Soil Enrichment Protocol at Scale: Opportunities for an Agricultural Carbon Market. Front. Clim. 2021 ,3,686440. [CrossRef]8. Blanco-Canqui, H.; Shaver, T.M.; Lindquist, J.L.; Shapiro, C.A.; Elmore, R.W.; Francis, C.A.; Hergert, G.W. Cover Crops andEcosystem Services: Insights from Studies in Temperate Soils. Agron. J. 2015 ,107, 2449–2474. [CrossRef]9. Clark, A. Managing Cover Crops Proﬁtably ; Diane Publishing: Collingdale, PA, USA, 2008.10. Behnke, G.D.; Kim, N.; Villamil, M.B. Agronomic Assessment of Cover Cropping and Tillage Practices across Environments.Agron. J. 2020 ,112, 3913–3928. [CrossRef]11. Bawa, A.; MacDowell, R.; Bansal, S.; McMaine, J.; Sexton, P . Responses of Leached Nitrogen Concentrations and Soil Health toWinter Rye Cover Crop under No-till Corn-Soybean Rotation in the Northern Great Plains. J. Environ. Qual. 2021 .Early View .[CrossRef]12. Behnke, G.D.; Villamil, M.B. Cover Crop Rotations Affect Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Crop Production in Illinois, USA. FieldCrops Res. 2019 ,241, 107580. [CrossRef]13. Marcillo, G.S.; Miguez, F.E. Corn Yield Response to Winter Cover Crops: An Updated Meta-Analysis. J. Soil Water Conserv. 2017 ,72, 226–239. [CrossRef]14. Carlson, S.; Stockwell, R. Research Priorities for Advancing Adoption of Cover Crops in Agriculture-Intensive Regions. J. Agric.Food Syst. Community Dev. 2013 ,3, 125–129. [CrossRef]15. Basche, A.D.; Kaspar, T.C.; Archontoulis, S.V .; Jaynes, D.B.; Sauer, T.J.; Parkin, T.B.; Miguez, F.E. Soil Water Improvements withthe Long-Term Use of a Winter Rye Cover Crop. Agric. Water Manag. 2016 ,172, 40–50. [CrossRef]16. Daryanto, S.; Fu, B.; Wang, L.; Jacinthe, P .A.; Zhao, W. Quantitative Synthesis on the Ecosystem Services of Cover Crops. Earth Sci.Rev. 2018 ,185, 357–373. [CrossRef]17. Abdalla, M.; Hastings, A.; Cheng, K.; Yue, Q.; Chadwick, D.; Espenberg, M.; Truu, J.; Rees, R.M.; Smith, P . A Critical Review ofthe Impacts of Cover Crops on Nitrogen Leaching, Net Greenhouse Gas Balance and Crop Productivity. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2019 ,25, 2530–2543. [CrossRef]18. Poeplau, C.; Don, A. Carbon Sequestration in Agricultural Soils via Cultivation of Cover Crops—A Meta-Analysis. Agric. Ecosyst.Environ. 2015 ,200, 33–41. [CrossRef]19. Guenet, B.; Gabrielle, B.; Chenu, C.; Arrouays, D.; Balesdent, J.; Bernoux, M.; Bruni, E.; Caliman, J.P .; Cardinael, R.; Chen, S.; et al .Can N2O Emissions Offset the Beneﬁts from Soil Organic Carbon Storage? Glob. Chang. Biol. 2021 ,27, 237–256. [CrossRef][PubMed]Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 20 of 2120. Teixeira, E.; Kersebaum, K.C.; Ausseil, A.G.; Cichota, R.; Guo, J.; Johnstone, P .; George, M.; Liu, J.; Malcolm, B.; Khaembah, E.; et al .Understanding Spatial and Temporal Variability of N Leaching Reduction by Winter Cover Crops under Climate Change. Sci.Total Environ. 2021 ,771, 144770. [CrossRef]21. Jordon, M.W.; Smith, P .; Long, P .R.; Bürkner, P .C.; Petrokofsky, G.; Willis, K.J. Can Regenerative Agriculture Increase NationalSoil Carbon Stocks? Simulated Country-Scale Adoption of Reduced Tillage, Cover Cropping, and Ley-Arable Integration UsingRothC. Sci. Total Environ. 2022 ,825, 153955. [CrossRef]22. Holzworth, D.P .; Huth, N.I.; de Voil, P .G.; Zurcher, E.J.; Herrmann, N.I.; McLean, G.; Chenu, K.; van Oosterom, E.J.; Snow, V .;Murphy, C.; et al. APSIM—Evolution towards a New Generation of Agricultural Systems Simulation. Environ. Model. Softw. 2014 ,62, 327–350. [CrossRef]23. Dokoohaki, H.; Morrison, B.D.; Raiho, A.; Serbin, S.P .; Zarada, K.; Dramko, L.; Dietze, M. Development of an Open-SourceRegional Data Assimilation System in PEcAn v. 1.7.2: Application to Carbon Cycle Reanalysis across the Contiguous US UsingSIPNET. Geosci. Model Dev. 2022 ,15, 3233–3252. [CrossRef]24. Kivi, M.; Blakely, B.; Masters, M.; Bernacchi, C.J.; Miguez, F.E.; Dokoohaki, H. Development of a Data-Assimilation System toForecast Agricultural Systems: A Case Study of Constraining Soil Water and Soil Nitrogen Dynamics in the APSIM Model. Sci.Total Environ. 2022 ,820, 153192. [CrossRef]25. Rai, T.S.; Nleya, T.; Kumar, S.; Sexton, P .; Wang, T.; Fan, Y. The Medium-Term Impacts of Integrated Crop–Livestock Systems onCrop Yield and Economic Performance. Agron. J. 2021 ,113, 5207–5221. [CrossRef]26. Singh, J.; Kumar, S. Evaluation of the DNDCv.CAN Model for Simulating Greenhouse Gas Emissions under Crop Rotations ThatInclude Winter Cover Crops. Soil Res. 2022 ,60, 534–546. [CrossRef]27. Adhikari, P .; Omani, N.; Ale, S.; DeLaune, P .B.; Thorp, K.R.; Barnes, E.M.; Hoogenboom, G. Simulated Effects of Winter WheatCover Crop on Cotton Production Systems of the Texas Rolling Plains. Trans. ASABE 2017 ,60, 2083–2096. [CrossRef]28. Qin, Z.; Guan, K.; Zhou, W.; Peng, B.; Villamil, M.B.; Jin, Z.; Tang, J.; Grant, R.; Gentry, L.; Margenot, A.J.; et al. Assessing theImpacts of Cover Crops on Maize and Soybean Yield in the U.S. Midwestern Agroecosystems. Field Crops Res. 2021 ,273, 108264.[CrossRef]29. USDA/NASS State Agriculture Overview for Illinois. Available online: https://www.nass.usda.gov/Quick_Stats/Ag_Overview/stateOverview.php?state=ILLINOIS (accessed on 27 January 2022).30. Jones, C. CERES-Maize; a Simulation Model of Maize Growth and Development ; Texas A&M University Press: College Station, TX,USA, 1986.31. Elliott, J.; Kelly, D.; Chryssanthacopoulos, J.; Glotter, M.; Jhunjhnuwala, K.; Best, N.; Wilde, M.; Foster, I. The Parallel System forIntegrating Impact Models and Sectors (PSIMS). Environ. Model. Softw. 2014 ,62, 509–516. [CrossRef]32. Dokoohaki, H.; Kivi, M.S.; Martinez-Feria, R.; Miguez, F.E.; Hoogenboom, G. A Comprehensive Uncertainty Quantiﬁcation ofLarge-Scale Process-Based Crop Modeling Frameworks. Environ. Res. Lett. 2021 ,16, 084010. [CrossRef]33. Shangguan, W.; Dai, Y.; Duan, Q.; Liu, B.; Yuan, H. A Global Soil Data Set for Earth System Modeling. J. Adv. Model. Earth Syst.2014 ,6, 249–263. [CrossRef]34. Hengl, T.; de Jesus, J.M.; Heuvelink, G.B.M.; Gonzalez, M.R.; Kilibarda, M.; Blagoti´ c, A.; Shangguan, W.; Wright, M.N.; Geng, X.;Bauer-Marschallinger, B.; et al. SoilGrids250m: Global Gridded Soil Information Based on Machine Learning. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12,e0169748. [CrossRef]35. Hersbach, H.; Bell, B.; Berrisford, P .; Hirahara, S.; Hor ányi, A.; Muñoz-Sabater, J.; Nicolas, J.; Peubey, C.; Radu, R.;Schepers, D.; et al. The ERA5 Global Reanalysis. Q. J. R. Meteorol. Soc. 2020 ,146, 1999–2049. [CrossRef]36. Zadoks, J.C.; Chang, T.T.; Konzak, C.F. A Decimal Code for the Growth Stages of Cereals. Weed Res. 1974 ,14, 415–421. [CrossRef]37. Dietzel, R.; Liebman, M.; Ewing, R.; Helmers, M.; Horton, R.; Jarchow, M.; Archontoulis, S. How Efﬁciently Do Corn-andSoybean-based Cropping Systems Use Water? A Systems Modeling Analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2015 ,22, 666–681. [CrossRef]38. Marcillo, G.S.; Carlson, S.; Filbert, M.; Kaspar, T.; Plastina, A.; Miguez, F.E. Maize System Impacts of Cover Crop ManagementDecisions: A Simulation Analysis of Rye Biomass Response to Planting Populations in Iowa, U.S.A. Agric. Syst. 2019 ,176, 102651.[CrossRef]39. Zheng, B.; Chenu, K.; Doherty, A.; Chapman, S. This Documentation Is Compiled from the Source Codes and Internal Documentsof APSIM-Wheat Module. In The APSIM-Wheat Module (7.5 R3008) ; Agricultural Production Systems Simulator (APSIM) Initiative,CSIRO: Canberra, Australia, 2015.40. Feyereisen, G.W.; Sands, G.R.; Wilson, B.N.; Strock, J.S.; Porter, P .M. Plant Growth Component of a Simple Rye Growth Model.Trans. ASABE 2006 ,49, 1569–1578. [CrossRef]41. Wallach, D.; Makowski, D.; Jones, J.W.; Brun, F. Uncertainty and Sensitivity Analysis. In Working with Dynamic Crop Models ;Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2019; pp. 209–250.42. Dietze, M.C. Propagating, Analyzing, and Reducing Uncertainty. In Ecological Forecasting ; Princeton University Press: Princeton,NJ, USA, 2017; pp. 138–164.43. R Core Team. R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing ; R Foundation for Statistical Computing: Vienna, Austria,2013.44. Wood, S. Generalized Additive Models ; Chapman and Hall/CRC: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2022. [CrossRef]45. NIMBLE Development Team. NIMBLE: MCMC, Particle Filtering, and Programmable Hierarchical Modeling. Zenodo 2021 .[CrossRef]Agriculture 2023 ,13, 176 21 of 2146. de Valpine, P .; Turek, D.; Paciorek, C.J.; Anderson-Bergman, C.; Lang, D.T.; Bodik, R. Programming With Models: WritingStatistical Algorithms for General Model Structures With NIMBLE. J. Comput. Graph. Stat. 2017 ,26, 403–413. [CrossRef]47. Yang, J.M.; Yang, J.Y.; Liu, S.; Hoogenboom, G. An Evaluation of the Statistical Methods for Testing the Performance of CropModels with Observed Data. Agric. Syst. 2014 ,127, 81–89. [CrossRef]48. Iqbal, J.; Mitchell, D.C.; Barker, D.W.; Miguez, F.; Sawyer, J.E.; Pantoja, J.; Castellano, M.J. Does Nitrogen Fertilizer ApplicationRate to Corn Affect Nitrous Oxide Emissions from the Rotated Soybean Crop? J. Environ. Qual. 2015 ,44, 711–719. [CrossRef]49. Elliott, J.; Müller, C.; Deryng, D.; Chryssanthacopoulos, J.; Boote, K.J.; Büchner, M.; Foster, I.; Glotter, M.; Heinke, J.; Iizumi, T.; et al .The Global Gridded Crop Model Intercomparison: Data and Modeling Protocols for Phase 1 (v1.0). Geosci. Model Dev. 2015 ,8,261–277. [CrossRef]50. Dokoohaki, H.; Rai, T.; Kivi, M.; Lewis, P .; G ómez-Dans, J.L.; Yin, F. Linking Remote Sensing with APSIM through Emulation andBayesian Optimization to Improve Yield Prediction. Remote Sens. 2022 ,14, 5389. [CrossRef]51. Boehm, J.D.; Abdel-Haleem, H.; Schapaugh, W.T.; Rainey, K.; Pantalone, V .R.; Shannon, G.; Klein, J.; Carter, T.E.; Cardinal, A.J.;Shipe, E.R.; et al. Genetic Improvement of US Soybean in Maturity Groups V , VI, and VII. Crop Sci. 2019 ,59, 1838–1852. [CrossRef]52. Ruis, S.J.; Blanco-Canqui, H.; Creech, C.F.; Koehler-Cole, K.; Elmore, R.W.; Francis, C.A. Cover Crop Biomass Production inTemperate Agroecozones. Agron. J. 2019 ,111, 1535–1551. [CrossRef]53. Dozier, I.A.; Behnke, G.D.; Davis, A.S.; Nafziger, E.D.; Villamil, M.B. Tillage and Cover Cropping Effects on Soil Properties andCrop Production in Illinois. Agron. J. 2017 ,109, 1261–1270. [CrossRef]54. Polyakov, V .; Lal, R. Modeling Soil Organic Matter Dynamics as Affected by Soil Water Erosion. Environ. Int. 2004 ,30, 547–556.[CrossRef]55. Dokoohaki, H.; Miguez, F.E.; Laird, D.; Dumortier, J. Where Should We Apply Biochar? Environ. Res. Lett. 2019 ,14, 044005.[CrossRef]56. Singh, J.; Singh, N.; Kumar, S. X-Ray Computed Tomography–Measured Soil Pore Parameters as Inﬂuenced by Crop Rotationsand Cover Crops. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2020 ,84, 1267–1279. [CrossRef]57. Chatterjee, N.; Archontoulis, S.V .; Bastidas, A.; Proctor, C.A.; Elmore, R.W.; Basche, A.D. Simulating Winter Rye Cover CropProduction under Alternative Management in a Corn-soybean Rotation. Agron. J. 2020 ,112, 4648–4665. [CrossRef]58. Pantoja, J.L.; Woli, K.P .; Sawyer, J.E.; Barker, D.W. Corn Nitrogen Fertilization Requirement and Corn–Soybean Productivity witha Rye Cover Crop. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2015 ,79, 1482–1495. [CrossRef]59. Moore, E.B.; Wiedenhoeft, M.H.; Kaspar, T.C.; Cambardella, C.A. Rye Cover Crop Effects on Soil Quality in No-Till CornSilage–Soybean Cropping Systems. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2014 ,78, 968–976. [CrossRef]60. Acuña, J.C.M.; Villamil, M.B. Short-Term Effects of Cover Crops and Compaction on Soil Properties and Soybean Production inIllinois. Agron. J. 2014 ,106, 860–870. [CrossRef]61. Blanco-Canqui, H.; Ruis, S.J. Cover Crop Impacts on Soil Physical Properties: A Review. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2020 ,84, 1527–1576.[CrossRef]62. USDA-NASS. United States Summary and State Data Volume 1 Geographic Area Series Part 51 United States Department ofAgriculture ; USDA-NASS: Washington, DC, USA, 2017.63. Plastina, A.; Liu, F.; Miguez, F.; Carlson, S. Cover Crops Use in Midwestern US Agriculture: Perceived Beneﬁts and Net Returns.Renew. Agric. Food Syst. 2020 ,35, 38–48. [CrossRef]64. CTIC. Report of the 2019–2020 National Cover Crop Survey ; Joint publication of the Conservation Technology Information Center,The North Central Region Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education Program, and the American Seed Trade Association:West Lafayette, IN, USA, 2020.65. Vose, R.S.; Applequist, S.; Squires, M.; Durre, I.; Menne, C.J.; Williams, C.N.; Fenimore, C.; Gleason, K.; Arndt, D. ImprovedHistorical Temperature and Precipitation Time Series for U.S. Climate Divisions. J. Appl. Meteorol. Climatol. 2014 ,53, 1232–1251.[CrossRef]66. Chabbi, A.; Lehmann, J.; Ciais, P .; Loescher, H.W.; Cotrufo, M.F.; Don, A.; Sanclements, M.; Schipper, L.; Six, J.; Smith, P .; et al.Aligning Agriculture and Climate Policy. Nat. Clim. Chang. 2017 ,7, 307–309. [CrossRef]67. Chambers, A.; Lal, R.; Paustian, K. Soil Carbon Sequestration Potential of US Croplands and Grasslands: Implementing the 4 perThousand Initiative. J. Soil Water Conserv. 2016 ,71, 68A–74A. [CrossRef]68. Lal, R.; Bouma, J.; Brevik, E.; Dawson, L.; Field, D.J.; Glaser, B.; Hatano, R.; Hartemink, A.E.; Kosaki, T.; Lascelles, B.; et al. Soilsand Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations: An International Union of Soil Sciences Perspective. Geoderma Reg.2021 ,25, e00398. [CrossRef]69. Dokoohaki, H. The Promise of Biochar: From Lab Experiment to National Scale Impacts. Licentiate Thesis, Iowa State University,Ames, IA, USA, 2018.70. Mohanty, M.; Sinha, N.K.; Somasundaram, J.; McDermid, S.S.; Patra, A.K.; Singh, M.; Dwivedi, A.K.; Reddy, K.S.; Rao, C.S.;Prabhakar, M.; et al. Soil Carbon Sequestration Potential in a Vertisol in Central India- Results from a 43-Year Long-TermExperiment and APSIM Modeling. Agric. Syst. 2020 ,184, 102906. [CrossRef]Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individualauthor(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury topeople or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.