Citation: Holka, M.; Kowalska, J.;Jakubowska, M. Reducing CarbonFootprint of Agriculture—CanOrganic Farming Help to MitigateClimate Change? Agriculture 2022 ,12,1383. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture12091383Academic Editor: Michael BlankeReceived: 15 July 2022Accepted: 1 September 2022Published: 3 September 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).agriculture ReviewReducing Carbon Footprint of Agriculture—Can OrganicFarming Help to Mitigate Climate Change?Małgorzata Holka1, Jolanta Kowalska1,*and Magdalena Jakubowska21Department of Organic Agriculture and Environmental Protection, Institute of Plant Protection—NationalResearch Institute, Władysława W˛ egorka 20, 60-318 Pozna ´ n, Poland2Department of Monitoring and Signalling of Agrophages, Institute of Plant Protection—National ResearchInstitute, Władysława W˛ egorka 20, 60-318 Pozna ´ n, Poland*Correspondence: j.kowalska@iorpib.poznan.plAbstract: In the face of a changing climate, intensive efforts are needed for limiting the globaltemperature increase to 1.5C. Agricultural production has the potential to play an important rolein mitigating climate change. It is necessary to optimize all of the agricultural practices that havehigh levels of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Among the plant production processes, mineralfertilization is of the greatest importance in the formation of the carbon footprint (CF) of crops.There are many possibilities for reducing GHG emissions from the application of fertilizers. Furtherbeneﬁts in reducing the CF can be obtained through combining tillage treatments, reduced and no-tilltechnologies, and the cultivation of catch crops and leguminous plants. Organic farming has thepotential for reducing GHG emissions and improving organic carbon sequestration. This systemeliminates synthetic nitrogen fertilizers and thus could lower global agricultural GHG emissions.Organic farming could result in a higher soil organic carbon content compared to non-organic systems.When used together with other environmentally friendly farming practices, signiﬁcant reductions ofGHG emissions can be achieved.Keywords: plant production systems; environmental effects; greenhouse gas emissions; life cycleassessment1. IntroductionClimate protection is an important challenge for the modern world. The concentrationof naturally occurring greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere has increased signiﬁ-cantly, thereby contributing to the severity of the greenhouse effect and global warming [ 1].According to the recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, theaverage temperature on Earth in the past decade increased by 1.09C compared to thereference level from 1850–1900, thus reﬂecting the average temperature of the so-calledpre-industrial period [ 2]. Natural processes such as solar radiation and volcanic activitycontributed only plus or minus 0.1C to the overall temperature increase between 1890and 2010 [ 3]. It is assumed that GHG emissions from anthropogenic sources, includingagricultural activities, are largely responsible for the increase in the global average temper-ature [ 4,5]. On the one hand, agriculture contributes to climate change, and on the otherhand, it is acutely affected by its effects, especially in plant production. Changes in climaticand weather conditions may contribute to a decrease in the yield of crops, among others,as a result of an increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme weather phenomena,drought, unstable wintering conditions for plants, the intensiﬁcation of the harmfulnessof pests, and the spread of invasive alien species [ 6–8]. The negative impact of climatechange also applies to livestock production, causing heat stress to animals during heatwaves, increasing the risk of diseases, and reducing the amount of available animal feed [ 9].Climate change affects not only agriculture but also other sectors of the economy andAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture12091383 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agricultureAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 2 of 21human health. For example, the heatwave events lead to an increase in the demand forelectricity and cause the rise of heat-related mortality [10–12].Due to the growing climate threats, the European Union (EU) has implemented theobligations for the member states concerning the presentation of data on GHG emissionvalues and the systems developed for their reduction [ 13]. Pursuant to the decision of theEuropean Parliament and the Council in 2013, the agriculture and forestry of the EU coun-tries have been included in the EU climate change policy. The adoption by the EU countriesin 2014 of the action plan for the reduction of gaseous emissions in sectors not coveredby the European emissions trading system, which also includes agriculture, requires thereduction of GHG emissions by 30% by 2030, compared to the 2005 level [ 14]. This meansthat the control of GHG emissions in the agricultural and food sectors should also be re-garded as an important instrument in order to support environmental management aimedat mitigating the effects of climate change. The implementation of the EU decision requiresactions to improve the methodologies of emission estimation and their harmonization,and the proper selection of agricultural practices that reduce GHG emissions, or increasethe removal of GHG, which would be both technically and economically effective. In thecontext of the global increase in food demand, emission reduction efforts must focus on alllinks in the food production chain [15,16].During the COP 21 climate conference in Paris in 2015, a global treaty was ratiﬁed inorder to combat climate change and to intensify activities and investments necessary fora sustainable low-carbon development. An action plan was deﬁned in order to aim for aglobal warming limit of less than 2C and to keep it at 1.5C. The Paris Agreement refers totwo actions aimed at reducing the concentration of carbon dioxide (CO 2) in the atmosphere:emission reduction, e.g., with new technologies and the development of renewable energysources and capturing CO 2from the atmosphere [ 17]. The necessity to implement theprovisions of the Paris Agreement was also emphasized at the COP 26 in 2019 in Glasgow,and in the new European Climate Law adopted in July 2021. The new EU law establishesthe GHG reduction target of 55% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, which takes into accountcarbon removals from forestry activities and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 [ 18]. On15 December 2021, the European Commission adopted a Communication on SustainableCarbon Cycles, which is the ﬁrst step towards a regenerative agriculture [ 19]. Regenerativeagricultural practices lead to reducing the concentration of CO 2in the atmosphere andabsorbing and retaining organic carbon (C) in the soil [ 20,21]. These practices are used bythe so-called carbon agriculture. In many countries, farmers can ﬁnancially beneﬁt fromcarrying out carbon farming by earning and selling carbon credits [22].To meet the requirements of a sustainable development, agriculture should strive tominimize the consumption of energy and natural resources, and thus impose the lowestpossible environmental burden. The implementation of the above objectives meets therequirements set for agriculture by the EU under the European Green Deal launched in2019 [ 23–25]. The actions agreed upon under the EU From Farm to Fork and the 2030Biodiversity Strategy include the need to reduce the use of fertilizers by at least 20%, andthe use of chemical plant protection products by 50% [ 26]. The EU action plan for organicfarming aims to allocate at least 25% of EU agricultural land to organic farming by 2030 [ 27].Organic farming largely excludes the use of agrochemicals such as mineral fertilizersand chemical plant protection products and relies primarily on proper crop rotation andother natural methods of maintaining or increasing the biological activity of the soil, and theproper selection of plant species and varieties, thus it reduces the environmental pollutionwith chemicals, helps to maintain soil fertility, and preserves the biodiversity while allowingfor the production of high-quality food [ 28]. Since there is an urgent need to prevent globalwarming, we should thoroughly understand the potential of organic farming in order toreduce GHG emissions from agriculture.Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 3 of 212. Agriculture’s Share in Greenhouse Gas EmissionsIn 2019, global anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) reached 54 billiontons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2eq.), and 52 billion tons of CO 2eq., with the landuse, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF) sectors emissions not included [ 29]. Agri-food systems were responsible for 17 billion tons CO 2eq., of which 7.2 billion tons of CO 2eq. came from crop and livestock activities within the farm gate, 5.8 billion tons of CO 2eq. came from pre- and post-production processes including transport, processing, andinput manufacturing, and 3.5 billion tons of CO 2eq. came from land use change processescaused mainly by deforestation and drainage and burning of organic soils (Figure 1). Theglobal agri-food systems GHG emissions increased by 16% between 1990 and 2019 [ 29].The emissions of three types of chemical compounds were the most important: nitrousoxide (N 2O), methane (CH 4), and carbon dioxide (CO 2). In terms of single gases, the shareof N 2O, CH 4and CO 2emissions from these systems accounted for 78%, 53 and 21% ofglobal emissions, respectively.Agriculture  2022 , 12, 1383  3 of 22   2. Agriculture’s Share in Greenhouse Gas Emissions  In 2019, global anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) reached 54 bil-lion tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2 eq.), and 52 billion tons of CO 2 eq., with the land use, land -use change, and forestry (LULUCF) sectors emissions not included [29]. Agri -food systems were responsible for 17 billion tons  CO 2 eq., of which 7.2 billion tons of CO 2 eq. came from crop and livestock activities within the farm gate, 5.8 billion tons of CO 2 eq. came from pre - and post -production processes including transport, processing, and input manufacturing, and 3.5 billion tons of CO 2 eq. came from land use  change pro-cesses caused mainly by deforestation and drainage and burning of organic soils (Figure 1). The g lobal agri -food system s GHG emissions increased by 16 % between 1990 and 2019 [29]. The emissions of three types of chemical compounds were the most important: ni-trous oxide (N 2O), methane (CH 4), and carbon dioxide (CO 2). In terms of single gases, the share of N 2O, CH 4 and CO 2 emissions from these systems accounted for 78%, 53 and 21% of global emissions, respectively.   Figure 1. Share of emissions fr om the agri-food systems and the non-food sector in global green-house gas (GHG) emissions in 2019. Source: own elaboration base d on data from  [29].  According to the European Environment Agency (EEA) data, in 2019, total GHG emissions without LULUCF from th e 27 member states of the European Union and the United Kingdom amounted to 4059 million tons  of CO 2 eq. [30]. Agriculture produced 427.6 million tons  of CO 2 eq., with a share of 10.5% of the total emissions (Figure 2). The emissions from enteric fermentation and agricultural soils were responsible for more than 80% of the total agricultural GHG emissions. Manure management was the third most important source of agricultural emissions, accounting for about 14.6% (Figure 3).  Figure 1. Share of emissions from the agri-food systems and the non-food sector in global greenhousegas (GHG) emissions in 2019. Source: own elaboration based on data from [29].According to the European Environment Agency (EEA) data, in 2019, total GHGemissions without LULUCF from the 27 member states of the European Union and theUnited Kingdom amounted to 4059 million tons of CO 2eq. [ 30]. Agriculture produced427.6 million tons of CO 2eq., with a share of 10.5% of the total emissions (Figure 2). Theemissions from enteric fermentation and agricultural soils were responsible for more than80% of the total agricultural GHG emissions. Manure management was the third mostimportant source of agricultural emissions, accounting for about 14.6% (Figure 3).Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 4 of 21Agriculture  2022 , 12, 1383  4 of 22    Figure 2. GHG  emissions in the European Union (EU) in the years 200 5–2019 . LULUCF, the land use, land -use change, and forestry. Source: own elaboration base d on data from [30].   Figure 3. Contribution of different sources of emissions to the total amount of GHG emissions from the EU’s  agriculture in 2019. Source: own elaboration base d on data from  [30].  3. Organic Agriculture  The h istory of modern organic farming in Europe dates back to the first half of the 20th century when the organic movement first began as a reaction to agriculture ’s grow-ing reliance on chemical inputs [31]. One of its precursors was Rudolf Steiner. In 1924, in Kobierzyce (Koberwitz) near Wrocław, (at the time under German occupation ), Steiner gave a series of lectures in which he presented the foundations of biological and dynamic management. He criticized high -yielding agriculture, which came into being at that time, mainly in connection with the invention of artificial fertilizers at the begi nning of the 20th century, the developing automotive industry, and the introduction of the first pesticides into agricultural production. Steiner propagated the benefits of fertilizing with livestock manure and compost made from plant and animal waste. He emphasized the need to treat the soil and the plants growing in it as one organism. This is how the so -called biodynamic agriculture was born. According to Steiner’s concept, the cultivation of crops should be Figure 2. GHG emissions in the European Union (EU) in the years 2005–2019. LULUCF, the land use,land-use change, and forestry. Source: own elaboration based on data from [30].Agriculture  2022 , 12, 1383  4 of 22    Figure 2. GHG  emissions in the European Union (EU) in the years 200 5–2019 . LULUCF, the land use, land -use change, and forestry. Source: own elaboration base d on data from [30].   Figure 3. Contribution of different sources of emissions to the total amount of GHG emissions from the EU’s  agriculture in 2019. Source: own elaboration base d on data from  [30].  3. Organic Agriculture  The h istory of modern organic farming in Europe dates back to the first half of the 20th century when the organic movement first began as a reaction to agriculture ’s grow-ing reliance on chemical inputs [31]. One of its precursors was Rudolf Steiner. In 1924, in Kobierzyce (Koberwitz) near Wrocław, (at the time under German occupation ), Steiner gave a series of lectures in which he presented the foundations of biological and dynamic management. He criticized high -yielding agriculture, which came into being at that time, mainly in connection with the invention of artificial fertilizers at the begi nning of the 20th century, the developing automotive industry, and the introduction of the first pesticides into agricultural production. Steiner propagated the benefits of fertilizing with livestock manure and compost made from plant and animal waste. He emphasized the need to treat the soil and the plants growing in it as one organism. This is how the so -called biodynamic agriculture was born. According to Steiner’s concept, the cultivation of crops should be Figure 3. Contribution of different sources of emissions to the total amount of GHG emissions fromthe EU’s agriculture in 2019. Source: own elaboration based on data from [30].3. Organic AgricultureThe history of modern organic farming in Europe dates back to the ﬁrst half ofthe 20th century when the organic movement ﬁrst began as a reaction to agriculture’sgrowing reliance on chemical inputs [ 31]. One of its precursors was Rudolf Steiner. In1924, in Kobierzyce (Koberwitz) near Wrocław, (at the time under German occupation),Steiner gave a series of lectures in which he presented the foundations of biological anddynamic management. He criticized high-yielding agriculture, which came into being atthat time, mainly in connection with the invention of artiﬁcial fertilizers at the beginningof the 20th century, the developing automotive industry, and the introduction of the ﬁrstpesticides into agricultural production. Steiner propagated the beneﬁts of fertilizing withlivestock manure and compost made from plant and animal waste. He emphasized theneed to treat the soil and the plants growing in it as one organism. This is how the so-called biodynamic agriculture was born. According to Steiner’s concept, the cultivationof crops should be harmonized with the phases of the moon. Biodynamic agricultureAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 5 of 21triggered the development of organic agriculture. Albert Howard also contributed to thisas in 1921, together with his wife, Gabrielle, he founded the Institute of Plant Industry.Their goal was to improve the traditional Indian farming methods. They popularized theagricultural practices for crop rotation, erosion prevention, and the application of compostsand natural fertilizers. As a result, the methods of farming and breeding animals thatwere environmentally friendly and, at the same time, did not cause loss of productivitywere popularized. In the early 1930s, Howard returned to Britain and began promotingorganic agriculture and it was then that the ﬁrst studies on organic agriculture wereundertaken. The global economic crisis in the 1930s made it necessary to increase theproductivity of agriculture in order to ensure greater food supplies. This has contributed tothe increase of the intensity of agricultural production, which uses increasing amounts ofartiﬁcial fertilizers and pesticides. There was little interest in organic agriculture, but theawareness of the environmental dangers related to the production and use of large amountsof industrial means of production in agriculture was slowly increasing. In the 1970s, inWestern Europe and in the USA, the interest in farming methods such as biodynamic,organic, and ecological agriculture arose. It is assumed that after the introduction of theconcept of organic agriculture in the years 1900–1972, the phase of development of organicagriculture began. In 1972, the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements(IFOAM) was founded. This organization plays an important role in setting the standards oforganic agriculture and promoting and disseminating organic farming methods. Accordingto the IFOAM, organic agriculture has four principles: health, ecology, fairness, and care.It deﬁnes organic agriculture as: “a production system that sustains the health of soils,ecosystems, and people. It relies on ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles adaptedto local conditions, rather than the use of inputs with adverse effects. Organic Agriculturecombines tradition, innovation, and science to beneﬁt the shared environment and promotefair relationships and good quality of life for all involved” [32].Currently, organic agriculture is developing rapidly, both globally and in the Euro-pean Union (EU) (Figure 4). From 2000 to 2020, the total organic agricultural area includingthe area under conversion and the certiﬁed area increased ﬁvefold in the world and almostquadrupled in the EU. In 2020, organic farming in the world occupied approximately75 million hectares of agricultural land, thereby constituting approximately 1.5% of thetotal agricultural land. The EU’s total organic agricultural area reached 15 million hectares,with a share of 9.2% of the total agricultural area. In the structure of the EU’s total organicagricultural area, arable land had a share of 46% (6.8 million hectares), followed by perma-nent grassland (meadows and pastures) with a share of 42%, and permanent crops (fruittrees and berries, olive groves and vineyards) with a share of 12% [ 33]. There is still scopefor further expansion of organic agriculture. Achieving 25% of the EU ‘s organic land,according to the EU’s action plan, would require triple its organic land area between 2019and 2030.Agriculture  2022 , 12, 1383  5 of 22   harmonized with the phases of the moon. Biodyn amic agriculture triggered the develop-ment of organic agriculture. Albert Howard also contributed to this as in 1921, together with his wife, Gabrielle, he founded the Institute of Plant Industry. Their goal was to im-prove the traditional Indian farming me thods. They popularized the agricultural practices for crop rotation, erosion prevention, and the application of composts and natural fertiliz-ers. As a result, the methods of farming and breeding animals that were environmentally friendly and, at the same time, did not cause loss of productivity were popularized. In the early 1930s, Howard returned to Britain and began promoting organic agriculture  and it was then that the first studies on organic agriculture were undertaken. The global eco-nomic crisis in t he 1930s made it necessary to increase the productivity of agriculture in order to ensure greater food supplies. This has contributed to the increas e of the  intensity of agricultural production, which uses increasing amounts of artificial fertilizers and p es-ticides. There was little interest in organic agriculture, but the awareness of the environ-mental dangers related to the production and use of large amounts of industrial means of production in agriculture was slowly increasing. In the 1970s, in Western Europe and in the USA, the interest in farming methods such as biodynamic, organic , and ecological ag-riculture arose . It is assumed that after the introduc tion of the  concept of organic agricul-ture in the years 190 0–1972 , the phase of development of organi c agriculture began. In 1972, the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM) was founded. This organization plays an important role in setting the standards of organic agriculture and promoting and disseminating organic farming metho ds. According to the IFOAM, organic agriculture has four principles: health, ecology, fairness, and care. It de-fines organic agriculture as: ”a production system that sustains the health of soils, ecosys-tems, and people. It relies on ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles adapted to local conditions, rather than the use of inputs with adverse effects. Organic Agriculture com-bines tradition, innovation, and science to benefit the shared environment and promote fair relationships and good quality of li fe for all involved” [32].  Currently, organic agriculture is developing rapidly, both globally and in the Euro -pean Union (EU) (Figure 4). From 2000 to 2020, the total organic agricultural area includ-ing the area under conversion and the certified area inc reased fivefold in the world and almost quadrupled in the EU. In 2020, organic farming in the world occupied approxi-mately 75 million hectares of agricultural land , thereby  constituting approximately 1.5% of the total agricultural land. The E U’s total orga nic agricultural area reached 15 million hectares, with a share of 9.2% of the total agricultural area. In the structure of the EU’s total organic agricultural area, arable land had a share of 46% (6.8 million hectares), fol-lowed by permanent grassland (me adows and pastures) with a share of 42%, and perma-nent crops (fruit trees and berries, olive groves and vineyards) with a share of 12% [33]. There is still scope for further expansion of organic agriculture. Achieving 25% of the EU ‘s organic land , accordi ng to the E U’s action plan , would require triple its organic land area between 2019 and 2030.   Figure 4. Organic agricultural land in the world and the European Union (EU) in the years 2000–2020.Source: own elaboration based on data from [34].Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 6 of 21The trends in healthy eating styles are driving the growing interest in organic food [ 35].Consumers are in favor of choosing “natural” products and perceive products from high-input, intensive agriculture as undesirable. Another factor inﬂuencing the developmentof the organic products market is society’s interest in environmental protection. There-fore, it is important to develop environmental standards that distinguish environmentallyfriendly production methods and support environmentally conscious consumers in theirmarket decisions.4. Evaluation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the Life Cycle AssessmentOne of the tools enabling the comprehensive estimation of the ecological effects of foodproduction is the life cycle assessment (LCA) [ 36,37]. Originally, this method was developedfor industry [ 38]. Currently, studies on the environmental assessment of agricultural pro-duction and food processing using the LCA are being developed around the world [39–41] .The LCA allows for a broad compilation and comparison of the environmental impact ofthe processes and products throughout the production cycle [42].Carrying out the LCA is crucial for obtaining the so-called Environmental ProductDeclaration (EPD) for the product [ 43]. It is a document that presents a series of dataon the resource consumption and environmental impacts in relation to the product’s lifecycle, namely: Consumption of renewable sources (biomass, energy); Consumption of non-renewable resources (mineral resources, fossil fuels); Water consumption; Amounts of waste for recycling; Environmental impact category indicators (acidiﬁcation potential, eutrophicationpotential, photooxidant formation potential); Environmental footprints (carbon footprint, ecological footprint, water footprint).In response to the sensitivity to the problem of climate change, many social groupsin developed countries are creating product labelling systems informing about the carbonfootprint (CF) [ 44,45]. Placing environmental labels on products and presenting informa-tion about the LCA results, is designed to provide consumers with accurate informationabout the environmental effects of products, facilitating their conscious choice, as well asintroducing the factor of competition between different manufacturers of similar prod-ucts. Food producers, being under pressure from environmental policies and shaping theecological criteria for food selection by consumers, are willing to modify agricultural prac-tices that would reduce the impact of agriculture on the environment. The environmentalinformation on the CF of a product is based on the LCA test procedures. The results ofthese tests must be obtained in accordance with the rules of type III EPD. Establishingan environmental declaration includes declaration preparation, veriﬁcation of assessmentmethods, and certiﬁcation. The condition for qualifying a product to be awarded thismark is the preparation of a report conﬁrming the measurement of the CF based on theinternationally recognized methods e.g., British Technical Speciﬁcation PAS2050: 2011 [ 46].This label is used in the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and many EU countries. Acommon system for labeling the CF in the Nordic countries is the Climate Declaration. Itrepresents the climate change impact category index developed in the EPD. The declarationprovides information on the total GHG emissions and, separately, for each stage of the lifecycle of the product, in kg of CO 2eq. per functional unit of the product [47].4.1. Life Cycle Assessment FrameworkThe life cycle assessment (LCA) is a standardized method for assessing the environ-mental aspects and potential impacts associated with all of the stages of the life cycle ofa product, process, or service [ 48,49]. According to the guidelines of the InternationalOrganization for Standardization (ISO), it is carried out in four phases [50,51]:1. Goal and scope deﬁnition;2. Life cycle inventory;Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 7 of 213. Life cycle impact assessment;4. Interpretation.In the ﬁrst phase (goal and scope deﬁnition), the system boundaries and the functionalunit are deﬁned. The system boundaries deﬁne the life cycle processes that belong to theanalyzed system. A functional unit is a quantitative description of the function of thesystem.The life cycle inventory (LCI) is the phase of identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of allﬂows between the environment and the analyzed system, i.e., energy and raw materialsconsumption as well as emissions to air, water, soil, and waste. The stocktaking of ﬂowsis made with reference to a predetermined functional unit. Data collection and systemmodelling must follow the deﬁned purpose and scope of the research.The life cycle impact assessment (LCIA) aims to establish the links between a productor process and its potential environmental impacts. The input and output data of the ﬂowsreported in the LCI are converted into the values of the category indicators.The impact assessment is performed in several steps:1. Selecting the impact category;2. Classiﬁcation—assigning the LCI results to the impact category;3. Characterization—calculation of the category indicators;4. Normalization—calculating the value of a category indicator against the referenceinformation;5. Grouping—the sorting or ranking of indicators;6. Weighing—assigning weights (importance) to the potential inﬂuences;7. Evaluation and reporting of the LCIA results.The interpretation can take place at any stage of the LCA. It involves identifying, check-ing, and evaluating the information from the LCI and LCIA results. The interpretation aimsto analyze results, to formulate conclusions, to explain limitations, and to make recommen-dations based on the results of previous LCA stages, and ensure an understandable andcomplete presentation of the results in line with the purpose and scope of the study.4.2. Carbon FootprintThe carbon footprint (CF) approach is used in order to assess the greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions related to various economic processes and products [ 52]. It is deﬁnedas the GHG emission balance over the entire life cycle of a product or process. Thecharacterization parameter for this environmental impact category (climate change) is theglobal warming potential.The CF is expressed as the sum of the products of the greenhouse effect for a substanceand the amount of emissions of the ‘i-th’ substance. It covers both direct and indirectemissions that are generated throughout the entire life cycle of a product. It is presented inthe form of quantiﬁable indicators: As GHG emissions in kg of carbon dioxide equivalent(CO 2eq.) per kg of product or per area unit per year. It is most often calculated for the100-year period.CF=åimiGWP a,i, (1)where: mi—the quantity of the substance ‘ i’ emitted (in kg per functional unit), GWP a,i—theglobal warming potential for a substance ‘ i’ over a time horizon a (expressed relative toCO 2per kg ‘ i’).The analysis of the GHG emissions from plant production using the LCA methodologycan be performed by examining the CF of a product or process from the extraction of rawmaterials and energy to the production within the system boundaries from ‘cradle-to-farm-gate’ and ‘gate-to-gate’ as shown in Figure 5, and by analyzing the entire life cycle of aproduct or process, including product disposal (‘cradle-to-grave’).Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 8 of 21Agriculture  2022 , 12, 1383  8 of 22   where: mi—the quantity of the substance ‘ i’ emitted (in kg per functional unit), GWP a,i—the global warming potential for a substance ‘ i’ over a time horizon a (expressed relative to CO 2 per kg ‘ i’). The a nalysis of the GHG emissions from plant production using the LCA  methodol-ogy can be performed by examining the CF of a product or process from the extraction of raw materials and energy to the production within the system boundaries from ‘cradle -to-farm -gate’ and ‘gate -to-gate’ as shown in Figure 5, and by analy zing th e entire life cycle of a product or process, including product disposal (‘cradle -to-grave’).   Figure 5. System boundaries of the carbon footprint  (CF)  estimation for the plant production sys-tems. Source: own elaboration.  The CF of an agricultural product or process can be used to inform producers about GHG emissions related to product manufacturing, to develop and apply GHG emission management strategies at different stages of the product life cycle, to identify the potential GHG mitig ation opportunities along the supply chain, to monitor the progress in reduc-ing GHG emissions over time, and to assist consumers in choosing products with the least impact on climate change [52,53].  5. Driving Factors of the GHG Emissions Intensity in Crop  Production  5.1. Fertilization  Many studies showed that fertilization has a large impact on the size of the carbon footprint (CF) of plant production [54,55]. The use of nitrogen (N) fertilizers in plant cul-tivation is accompanied by the emission of gaseou s N compounds. Nitrogen, being a chemically reactive compound, has a global warming effect. In its chemical form, as ni-trous oxide (N 2O), it is, next to carbon dioxide (CO 2) and methane (CH 4), the third most important component of greenhouse gases (GHG) in  agriculture [56,57]. The importance of the influence of N 2O in the creation of the greenhouse effect is emphasized by its high index of global warming potential (GWP), which is 265. For comparison, this index for CH 4 and CO 2 is 28 and 1, respectively [58] . This index is a measure of how much energy will be consumed by the emission of 1 ton of gas in a given period in relation to the emis-sion of 1 ton of CO 2. The greater value of the GWP indicates that a given gas heats the Earth more  than the other two . An other important N -containing chemical is ammonia (NH 3). It has a large eutrophication and acidification potential. Large amounts of NH 3 are emitted into the atmosphere from N fertilizers, especially those containing N in the form Figure 5. System boundaries of the carbon footprint (CF) estimation for the plant production systems.Source: own elaboration.The CF of an agricultural product or process can be used to inform producers aboutGHG emissions related to product manufacturing, to develop and apply GHG emissionmanagement strategies at different stages of the product life cycle, to identify the potentialGHG mitigation opportunities along the supply chain, to monitor the progress in reducingGHG emissions over time, and to assist consumers in choosing products with the leastimpact on climate change [52,53].5. Driving Factors of the GHG Emissions Intensity in Crop Production5.1. FertilizationMany studies showed that fertilization has a large impact on the size of the carbonfootprint (CF) of plant production [ 54,55]. The use of nitrogen (N) fertilizers in plantcultivation is accompanied by the emission of gaseous N compounds. Nitrogen, beinga chemically reactive compound, has a global warming effect. In its chemical form, asnitrous oxide (N 2O), it is, next to carbon dioxide (CO 2) and methane (CH 4), the third mostimportant component of greenhouse gases (GHG) in agriculture [ 56,57]. The importanceof the inﬂuence of N 2O in the creation of the greenhouse effect is emphasized by its highindex of global warming potential (GWP), which is 265. For comparison, this index for CH 4and CO 2is 28 and 1, respectively [ 58]. This index is a measure of how much energy will beconsumed by the emission of 1 ton of gas in a given period in relation to the emission of1 ton of CO 2. The greater value of the GWP indicates that a given gas heats the Earth morethan the other two. Another important N-containing chemical is ammonia (NH 3). It has alarge eutrophication and acidiﬁcation potential. Large amounts of NH 3are emitted intothe atmosphere from N fertilizers, especially those containing N in the form of urea andammonium, and from animal feces, which poses a serious threat to the environment. Inorder to reduce N 2O emissions, as well as to counteract the effects of water pollution withnitrates, eutrophication, and acidiﬁcation of the environment by gaseous NH 3emissions,it is important to strive to create an as closed as possible N cycle in the farm [ 59]. Takinga holistic view and identifying the critical places in the N cycle of the farm, leads to animprovement in the efﬁciency of the N use and the reduction of N losses in agriculturalproduction [ 60]. In the literature, it is noted that organic farming leads to closing thenutrient cycle on the farm and minimizing nutrient losses [57,61].Fertilization technologies have an impact on the increase of the efﬁciency of N use. Inthe correct fertilization technology, the most important role is played by strip fertilization,the appropriate date of the fertilization application, distribution of the doses, adjustment ofAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 9 of 21the fertilization level to the spatial differentiation of the soil conditions, and the abundanceof nutrients in the soil [ 62]. In the cultivation of rape and wheat, the efﬁciency of N usemay increase by about 10% with the appropriate fertilization technologies [63].N2O emissions from N fertilization can vary between 0.77% and 1.25% from the N ap-plied both for synthetic and organic fertilizers [ 64,65]. According to the IntergovernmentalPanel on Climate Change (IPCC) [ 56], the default emission factor for organic amendmentsis 1% with an uncertainty range between 0.1% and 1.8%. As a result of the use of naturalfertilizers on soils that are poor in organic matter, it is possible to increase N 2O emissionsdue to the stimulation of the microbial activity of the soil (due to the availability of carboncompounds), which leads to a reduction in oxygen content in the soil and the formationof anaerobic conditions conducive to the process of denitriﬁcation [ 66]. Other factors thatstimulate N 2O emissions include the application of natural fertilizers shortly before rainfall,soil pH < 6, and the depth of the introduction of the natural fertilizers into the soil. Mixingthe manure with the soil at a shallow depth leads to higher N 2O emissions than with adeep incorporation of the manure [ 67]. In the case of the soil injection of slurry, the N lossesfrom the slurry amount to about 9% (4.4% of NH 3and 4.7% of nitrate (NO 3)), while duringthe spreading of slurry on the ﬁeld surface, the N losses reach 27.1% (20.5% of NH 3and6.6% of NO 3) [68].In soil, N 2O is formed as a result of two microbiological processes: nitriﬁcation, i.e.,the oxidation of ammonium to nitrates, and denitriﬁcation—the reduction of nitrates tomolecular N and N 2O. The intensity of N 2O emissions depends mainly on the availabilityof mineral N forms. The maximum amount of N 2O emissions is observed in the periodof 2–3 weeks after the sowing of N fertilizers. The N 2O emissions from farmland can bereduced by using fertilizers with lower emission factors. The use of nitrate fertilizers resultsin lower emissions of N compounds compared to the emissions from the use of urea-basedfertilizers [ 69,70]. The size of the emission stream also depends on many other factors, suchas temperature, soil moisture, fertilizer dose, and the type of crop [71].The rapid development of crops, during which plants take up NO 3intensively, reducesthe emission of N 2O due to the limitation of the availability of mineral N in the soil. Thedirect N gas losses from the ﬁelds also include NH 3emissions into the atmosphere. Theemitted NH 3is an indirect source of N 2O emissions. After this gas is deposited on thesoil surface, it undergoes nitriﬁcation. The reduction of the NH 3gas losses during theapplication of fertilizers is therefore an activity conducive to the reduction of N 2O emissionsin agriculture. The use of a fertilizer urea causes high N losses, amounting to almost 25%.Its losses in the form of ammonia can be even greater than 50% [ 72]. The reduction of Nlosses from urea is possible by mixing it quickly with the soil after sowing and avoidingsowing in conditions of high air temperatures, shortly after liming, after applying slurryand manure, and on plant residues in the ﬁeld [60].GHG emissions from the production of fertilizers are the second source of emissionsfrom the fertilization process in the entire cycle of plant production, following GHGemissions from the ﬁelds [ 73]. The emissions at the stage of production of mineral fertilizersdepend on the efﬁciency of the synthesis of N compounds, the demand for natural gas aswell as heat and electricity. The technological progress in the production of fertilizers leadsto a systematic reduction of these emissions. The literature reports that GHG emissionsper 1 ton of N are between 2.6 and 9.7 t CO 2eq. [ 74]. The conversion of NH 3, which isthe initial form of mineral N in the Haber–Bosch process, into other chemical compoundssuch as ammonium nitrate and urea is energy-consuming. Approximately 70–80% of theproduction costs of N fertilizers using this method is natural gas [ 75]. Large energy inputsin the fertilizer production stage increase GHG emissions [76].The use of natural N ﬁxation processes by cultivating N-ﬁxing plants can reducethe demands for mineral N fertilizers and thus contribute to lower GHG emissions [ 77].Leguminous plants living in symbiosis with papillary bacteria can use molecular N andconvert it into NH 3without emitting CO 2into the atmosphere. A signiﬁcant part of the Nassimilated by symbiotic bacteria feeds the soil in the form of crop residues and root mass.Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 10 of 21In the case of leguminous plants, the amount of N remaining in the soil after their harvestranges from 40 to 50% [ 78]. Therefore, the presence of leguminous plants in cultivationsystems reduces the consumption of mineral N fertilizers. An additional beneﬁt is theincrease in the productivity of successive crops in rotation. Improving the efﬁciency of theuse of N from legumes by other plants requires a better understanding of the mineralizationprocess of post-harvest remains of leguminous plants and the synchronization of the paceof their decomposition with the rhythm of the N uptake by the succeeding plant. Increasingthe share of the symbiotically bound N in the pool of generally available N in agriculturalsystems depends on the presence of leguminous plants in rotation. Thus, thanks to thecultivation of legumes, the dependence of agriculture on mineral N fertilizers is reducedand the CF of agricultural products will be reduced as well. Leguminous plants, dueto their beneﬁcial inﬂuence on soil properties by limiting the use of fertilizers and plantprotection products, are in line with the pro-environmental trend in agriculture. Theircultivation is especially appreciated in organic farming.5.2. Plant ProtectionThe life cycle of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from plant protection is mainlyassociated with the processes of the production of plant protection products, and fuelcombustion and agriculture machinery used during the plant protection treatments onﬁelds. Plant protection has a smaller contribution to the formation of carbon footprints (CFs)than the fertilization process [ 79]. It is worth noting that by obtaining a higher yield thanksto the effective protection of plants against the activity of pests, allows for obtaining a lowerCF per product unit, e.g., a kg of wheat grain. The use of chemical plant protection productsis highly effective, but due to the dispersion of active substances in the environment, itcauses the risk of contamination of waters and soils, as well as their bioaccumulation inliving organisms [ 80]. In order to limit these effects, on 1 January 2014 , the obligation toapply the principles of integrated pest management (IPM) was introduced in the EuropeanUnion (EU) [ 81]. According to the IPM plan, before applying any chemical plant protection,all available biological, physical, and other non-chemical methods should be used. It isimportant to use crop rotation, use the right crop varieties, adhere to the optimal deadlines,properagrotechnics, proper fertilization, and prevention of the spread of pests. Due tothe increased species diversity of plants in crop rotation, the development of weeds isunder pressure from many agronomic factors, i.e., the timing of cultivation treatments,different soil cultivation systems, intensity of cultivation treatments, a wider spectrumof active substances, the type and amount of crop residues, different plant morphology,and the dynamics of nutrient uptake from the soil. The use of crop rotation consequentlyreduces the weed infestation of crops and the use of herbicides and promotes a greater cropproductivity [ 77]. In the experimental system of cereal cultivation in rotation with rape,this was characterized by a reduction in the dose of herbicides by 50%, the sowing of high-yielding cultivars, and an increased seeding density. A comparable effectiveness of weedcontrol was obtained in relation to the less intensive cultivation of crops in monoculture [ 82].Despite the binding IPM, the chemical method is the dominant form of plant protectionin the conventional agricultural production system [ 83]. In turn, the plant protection inorganic farming is based on non-chemical methods.5.3. Energy and Machinery UseThe combustion of fossil fuels is the main form of on-farm energy use. Fossil fuelsare used in processes related to the production of agricultural machinery, fertilizers, plantprotection products, and transportation. The energy use in farming systems dependson many factors, the most important of which are soil cultivation, crop rotation, andproduction intensity. The mechanical cultivation treatments affect greenhouse gas (GHG)emissions both directly and indirectly [84,85].Direct emissions mainly depend on the fuel consumption of tractors and self-propelledmachinery. The amount of combustion depends on the power of the tractor, soil compact-Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 11 of 21ness, degree of scaling, depth and working width of the machines. It is assumed that thedemand for fuel increases with the increase of the depth of the cultivation and the speed ofthe treatment [ 86]. The average fuel consumption for plowing is around 24 l per ha [87,88] .In Croatia, the fuel consumption in conventional tillage ranged from 48.1 l per ha in barleyto 60.99 l per ha in maize. It was assumed that the combustion of 1.0 l of diesel oil gener-ates 2.75 kg CO 2, thus the carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions from the fuel consumption inconventional tillage ranged from 132.36 kg CO 2per ha in barley to 167.72 kg CO 2per ha inmaize. In turn, the use of reduced tilling and the direct sowing allowed for fuel savingsand limited the CO 2emissions by 35.3–42.9% and by 87.8–88.1%, respectively [ 89]. In thecultivation of winter oilseed rape in Lithuanian conditions, the amount of diesel oil usedfor deep plowing was 23.6 l per ha. The great savings in fuel consumption occurred both indirect sowing and strip tilling. In direct sowing, the fuel consumption was 3.8 times lowerand amounted to 6.2 l per ha, while in strip tilling and sowing, the amount of fuel used was3.7 times lower and amounted to 6.4 l per ha. The assessment of the GHG emissions showedthat using no-till technologies reduced emissions by 21.2% compared with technologiesbased on deep plowing [90].In organic farming, the indirect energy consumption is lower due to the lack ofmineral fertilization and the narrow spectrum of plant protection products allowed inorganic farming [ 91]. The beneﬁcial effect of reducing the N fertilization is the reduction ofthe indirect energy consumption, which is also associated with the reduction of the carbonfootprint (CF) of plant products. In the organic production system, the efﬁciency of theenergy consumption and the energy value of the crops in relation to the energy value ofinputs is higher than in the conventional farming system [92–95].5.4. Carbon SequestrationIn the literature, agricultural production is presented as a source of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions. The potential for organic carbon (C) sequestration throughout the farmarea is often overlooked. It should be highlighted that the proper management of soilorganic matter (SOM) in an agricultural production system is an important element inreducing the greenhouse effect. The degradation of the SOM increases GHG emissions.Maintaining a constant inﬂow of the organic matter to the soil in the form of crop residues,root mass, and natural fertilizers is necessary in order to counteract the processes of SOMdegradation and thus the loss of C, in the form of carbon dioxide (CO 2) emissions, intothe atmosphere [85,96].Leaving large amounts of post-harvest residues on the soil surface in conservationtillage contributes to the accumulation of organic C, reducing fuel consumption and thus re-ducing GHG emissions from fuel combustion, reducing the risk of water and wind erosion,increasing the stability of soil aggregates, water retention and greater soil water capacity,and the preservation of biodiversity in the subsurface layers of soils [ 97]. Conservationtillage combined with straw mulch is a practice intended for drought resistance. The useof mulch from cover crops keeps the soil covered while increasing the amount of organicmatter in the soil. While all species of cover crops provide many beneﬁts, some speciesare better than others, depending on speciﬁc objectives, such as preventing erosion orimproving soil quality. Therefore, growing cover crop mixes, for example grasses andlegumes, serve a variety of purposes at the same time [98].The cultivation of deep-rooted plants, such as perennial legumes and grasses, isessential for the accumulation of organic C in the soil [ 99]. It is also beneﬁcial to deeplymix the soil with harvest residues. The plant material then slowly decomposes due to thelimited microbiological activity in the border zone of the arable layer and subsoil. Limitingthe C losses by slowing down the rate of organic matter mineralization is a factor in theprotection of its resources in soils. The increase in the SOM might stop after 20–30 years ofagricultural practices aimed at increasing the organic matter content [ 100–102]. After thistime, the content of organic matter stabilizes, thereby showing no tendency for its furtheraccumulation in the soil [103].Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 12 of 21The increase in the SOM is achieved by cultivating catch crops [ 104,105]. They alsofulﬁll many additional functions consisting in limiting the leaching of nitrates (NO 3) andweed infestation, and the assimilation of atmospheric nitrogen in the case of sowing catchcrops with leguminous crops.An effective way to improve the resources of the SOM is to increase the productivityof crops, thereby increasing the amount of crop residues. Annual plants that leave largeamounts of crop residues in the ﬁeld, such as grain maize, have a beneﬁcial effect onthe growth of organic matter. Large amounts of crop residues are also provided by thecultivation of perennial plants on arable land, e.g., grasses or papilionaceous plants. Thetransition from the cultivation of cereals in monoculture to their cultivation in rotation withthe share of grasses on arable land resulted in an increase in the amount of organic C at therate of 1% per year (0.5 t C per ha per year) under average European conditions [106].Farms with a plant production have the potential for inﬂuencing the formation ofSOM resources primarily by quantitatively increasing the mass of plant residues, while infarms specializing in livestock production, natural fertilizers are of key importance. Themain factors controlling the accumulation and decomposition of the SOM, in addition tothe type of agricultural systems and the type of soil, are climatic conditions. Forecastedtemperature increases, as well as the frequency and amount of rainfall, may have a negativeimpact on the intensity of the organic matter decomposition process. Farms specializingin plant production are the most likely to show the dynamics of decline. The protectionof organic matter resources will be the greatest challenge for maintaining the productivepotential of soils on plant production farms [107].Reducing the number of cultivation treatments and their intensity contributes to thereduction of C losses in arable soils. The cultivation treatments accelerate the decompositionof the organic matter by breaking down soil aggregates and increasing the supply of oxygento the deeper layers of the soil. Plowing has the most adverse effect on the degradationof the SOM. In many regions of the world, there have been long established practices oflimiting the use of the plow, cultivating crops at a shallow working depth of machines,less intensive mixing of the soil, and leaving the greater part of crop residues on the ﬁelds.Based on ﬁeld studies conducted independently in many places around the world, it wasestimated that direct sowing for a period of 20 years caused an increase in C (in the 0–30 cmlayer) on average by 10–20%, compared to the previous period, in which plowing wasused [ 108]. In the USA, the annual rate of organic C accumulation in no-till ﬁelds was about0.34 t per ha. Due to the lower intensity of the use of tilling machines, a reduction of GHGemissions in reduced tillage and direct sowing was achieved by 40 and 70%, respectively,compared to conventional tillage [ 109]. There is a particular risk of CO 2emissions in thecultivation of organic soils. The annual rate of gaseous CO 2losses may vary between10 and 20 t per ha, i.e., 2.7–5.5 t C per ha [ 110]. One of the solutions offering mitigationof high CO 2emissions in areas with this type of soil is wetland restoration. However, thenegative increase in CH 4emissions from wetlands should be taken into account in theoverall GHG balancing [111].According to [ 112] the content of the SOM in organic farming increased to 1.90 t C perha per year, while in the conventional system it was degrading by 1.24 t C per ha per year.Other authors also reported a higher SOM in organic farming [113].One of the solutions in mitigating climate change is agroforestry. This system consistsin integrating woody plants with arable crops or with permanent land and livestockproduction, allowing to lead a proﬁtable agricultural production in a sustainable andenvironmentally friendly manner [ 114,115]. The role of agroforestry in counteractingclimate change was highlighted during the 24th Conference of the Parties to the UnitedNations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP24) in Katowice in 2018.In Poland, the amount of CO 2absorbed by forests was 771 kg CO 2per ha [ 116]. Otherstudies demonstrated an increase in C sequestration as a result of changing the use of arableland into permanent grassland by 19%, while the afforestation of arable land increased theC accumulation by 53% [ 117]. In the short rotation coppices, an increase in the C content ofAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 13 of 21the SOM was noted at 0.3 t C per ha per year, which corresponds to 1.1 t CO 2per ha peryear [ 118]. It has been reported that midﬁeld shelterbelts and boundary strips contributedto an increase in the accumulation of C in soil and the SOM, by 1.3% and 1.2% per year,respectively. The accumulation of C by trees (disregarding the root systems) increases itscontent by about 2.8 t C per ha per year [119].6. Carbon Footprint of Organic FarmingRaising awareness of climate change has triggered a large amount of research into com-paring greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of the various agricultural production systems inEurope (Table 1). Organic farming is considered as the environmentally friendly system andis in line with the concept of a sustainable agricultural development [ 120,121]. However, inthe literature, studies using the life cycle assessment (LCA) methodology in the productionof ﬁeld crops in the organic and conventional systems, there are divergent opinions onthe environmental aspects of the production of ﬁeld crops in these two systems. Severalstudies showed that organic farming has the potential to reduce the carbon footprint (CF)of plant production, while the other reported contradictory results [95,104,122].Table 1. Examples of goals, functional units and system boundaries in life cycle assessment (LCA)studies, taking into account the organic farming under European conditions.Goal Functional Units System Boundary Country ReferencesAssessment of the carbon footprint ofpumpkin production1 ha of cultivated land,1 kg of productCradle-to-grave Germany [65]Assessment of the carbon footprint ofwheat farming and whole meal breadproduction1 ha of wheat cultivation,1 kg of breadCradle-to-gate Italy [123]Assessment of environmental impacts ofwheat cultivation systems1 ha of wheat cultivation,1 kg of grainCradle-to-gate Belgium [124]Assessment of the environmental burdensof producing bread wheat, oilseed rape,and potatoes1 kg of product Cradle-to-gate England, Wales [125]Assessment of the environmental impactsof lettuce cultivation systems1 ha of lettuce cultivation,1 t of lettuce producedCradle-to-gate Greece [122]Assessment of the environmental impactsof eggplant production1000 m2of cultivation,1 t of marketable eggplantfruit yieldCradle-to-gate Greece [126]Assessment of the greenhouse gasemissions from herbaceous croppingsystems1 ha of cultivation,1 kg of productCradle-to-gate Spain [127]Assessment of the carbon footprint ofconventional and organic cropsproduction1 ha of land Cradle-to-gate Slovenia [128]Assessment of the carbon footprint ofcrops from different organic andconventional arable crop rotations1 ha of land,1 kg of cropCradle-to-gate Denmark [104]Assessment of the environmental impactsof organic and conventional leekproduction1 ha of leek cultivation,1 kg of leekCradle-to-gate Belgium [129]Assessment of the carbon footprint ofpotatoes in different cultivation systems1 ha of cultivated land,1 kg of potatoesCradle-to-gate Italy [130]Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 14 of 21Table 1. Cont.Goal Functional Units System Boundary Country ReferencesAssessment of the environmentalperformance of pepper cultivationsystems1 t of marketable pepperfruitsCradle-to-gate Greece [131]Assessment of the greenhouse gasemissions from potato cultivation systems1 kg of potatoes Cradle-to-gate Czech Republic [132]Assessment of the greenhouse gasemissions from plant production indifferent farming systems1 kg of product Cradle-to-gate Czech Republic [133]In the conventional production system, the use of large amounts of agrochemicals andagricultural machinery allows for the achievement of high crop yields. Organic farmingis usually characterized by using lower inputs, as well as obtaining lower crop yields.Because of that, the environmental impacts of organic farming per unit of land are usuallylower compared with the conventional production. In turn, with regards to the unit ofproduct, the environmental impacts of organic farming may be greater [41,124,134].Foteinis and Chatzisymeon [ 122] compared the environmental impacts of organicand conventional open-ﬁeld lettuce cultivation systems in Northern Greece using the LCAmethodology. With regards to one hectare as a functional unit, the results of a cradle-to-gateanalysis showed that the GHG emissions from organic farming measured as carbon dioxideequivalents (CO 2eq.) and amounted to 1603 kg CO 2eq., while the conventional system wasresponsible for 1893 kg CO 2eq. The main emission sources were irrigation and fertilization.Under similar conditions in Central Europe, GHG emissions from the organic pro-duction of potatoes amounted to 0.126 kg CO 2eq. per one kilogram of potatoes and werelower by 18% in comparison with the conventional production [132].In the environmental impact assessment of organic and conventional leek productionsystems in Belgium, it was found that the global warming potential (GWP) per one squaremetre of land in organic farming amounted to 0.12 kg CO 2eq. and was three times lowerthan in the conventional system (0.36 kg CO 2eq.) Considering the functional unit of onekilogram, it was noted that the GWP was also signiﬁcantly lower in the organic production(0.044 kg CO 2eq.) compared with the conventional system (0.094 kg CO 2eq.) [129].The assessment of GHG emissions in the entire cycle of organic and integrated olive-growing systems in Italy showed a greater environmental impact of organic farmingbecause of the higher number of mechanical operations e.g., for plant protection [135].In Spain, the GWP in organic and conventional herbaceous cropping systems wascompared. With regards to both functional units of 1 ha and 1 kg, the organic systemsigniﬁcantly contributed to the reduction of GHG emissions (in the ranges of 35.9–64.7%and 16.3–41.9%, respectively) [127].It should be emphasized that there are some limitations in the analyses of organicfarming by the LCA. According to [ 136], the LCA studies in agricultural production oftenoverlook important factors such as soil quality, the use of plant protection products, andthe impact on the biodiversity which can lead to masking some of the beneﬁts of organicfarming. The results of the LCA of organic farming can vary widely because of the useof different assumptions in studies, e.g., system boundaries, functional units, life cycleimpact assessment methods, and allocation methods [ 95]. Some authors recommend thatthe assessment of the CF of crops should take into account the whole crop rotation andcarbon changes [ 104,137]. Various methodological approaches are proposed in order toinclude these aspects in the LCA analyses of plant production. However, due to the lack ofclear methodology guidelines, these are neglected in studies on organic farming.Montemayor et al. [ 138] stated that some aspects in life cycle inventory of organicfarming should be improved. There is often a lack of background inventory datasets for themanufacturing of organic fertilizers and plant protection products which are used in organicAgriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 15 of 21farming. In existing LCA databases such as ecoinvent [ 139] and AGRYBALYSE [ 140], thereare no datasets corresponding to many botanical, microbiologically derived, and mineral-based products. The use of “Pesticide unspeciﬁed“ datasets because of the lack of availabledatasets for certain plant protection products, is insufﬁcient for obtaining reliable andaccurate LCA results. Fertilizer inventory improvements are also needed. The authors alsohighlighted that the modelling of ﬁeld emissions from fertilization and plant protectionrequires more attention.7. ConclusionsThe carbon footprint (CF) is increasing in importance now that agriculture has beenincluded in the European Union’s emission reduction program. It is an important tool forassessing the quantitative changes in greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) as a result of theapplication of various mitigating measures in agricultural production.There are many agricultural practices in agricultural production that generate poten-tially large GHG emissions. Most often, they are characterized by a high consumption offossil fuels and energy. From among the plant production processes, the mineral fertil-ization is of the greatest importance in shaping the CF. Currently, there are a number ofpossibilities in order to reduce GHG emissions by taking measures to increase the efﬁciencyof fertilization. The available solutions in this area include fertilization optimization, appro-priate dates and methods of fertilizer application as well as new forms of fertilizers. Furtherbeneﬁts in reducing the CF can be obtained through the aggregation of tilling treatmentsand simpliﬁed tilling systems.An important strategy in order to reduce GHG emissions in agriculture is to increasethe amount of soil organic matter (SOM). The current level of the inﬂow of crop residuesand the plow tilling system are only sufﬁcient in order to maintain the current resourcesof organic matter. The carbon dioxide (CO 2) retention potential in soils can be increasedusing non-inversion tilling, the use of catch crops, the abandonment of crop residues in theﬁeld, and the cultivation of grasses and legumes on arable land. A very important elementof the emission management at the farm level, apart from technological solutions, is theshaping of the appropriate spatial structures of the landscape in a longer period based on amidﬁeld forest cover. The absorption of CO 2depends not only on the area of forests andthe increase in forest resources, but also by supporting the processes of accumulation oforganic matter in arable soils. It is therefore important for agriculture to play an active rolein sequestering carbon (C) in soils in order to mitigate the effects of climate change.In organic farming, an absence of mineral fertilizers allows for the avoidance ofsigniﬁcant GHG emissions from the application of fertilizers on the ﬁeld as well as fromfertilizer production. This system leads to building SOM and sequestering atmosphericC. It can be concluded that organic farming has considerable potential to contribute tothe mitigation of climate change. However, the recognition of the performance of organicfarming using the LCA is still insufﬁcient and requires further comprehensive studies.Thus, improvements in the LCA methodology in the areas of organic farming is essential.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.K. and M.H.; methodology, J.K. and M.H.; investigation,M.H. and J.K.; resources, M.H.; writing—original draft preparation and editing, M.H. and J.K.;writing—review, J.K. and M.J.; visualization, M.H. and M.J.; supervision, J.K. All authors have readand agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research received no external funding.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 16 of 21References1. Kundzewicz, Z.W. Large-scale climate change (observations, interpretation, projections). In Climate Change and Its Impact onSelected Sectors in Poland ; Kundzewicz, Z.W., Hov, Ø., Okruszko, T., Eds.; Ridero IT Publishing: Pozna ´ n, Poland, 2017; pp. 14–28.2. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Summary for policymakers. In Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis.Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; MassonDelmotte, V .,Zhai, P ., Pirani, A., Connors, S.L., P éan, C., Berger, S., Caud, N., Chen, Y., Goldfarb, L., Gomis, M.I., Eds.; Cambridge UniversityPress: Cambridge, UK; New York, NY, USA, 2021; pp. 3–32. [CrossRef]3. Bindoff, N.L.; Stott, P .A.; AchutaRao, K.M.; Allen, M.R.; Gillett, N.; Gutzler, D.; Hansingo, K.; Hegerl, G.; Hu, Y.; Jain, S.; et al.Detection and attribution of climate change: From global to regional. In Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis Contributionof Working Group I to the 5th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; Stocker, T.F., Qin, D., Plattner, G.-K.,Tignor, M., Allen, S.K., Boschung, J., Nauels, A., Xia, Y., Bex, V ., Midgley, P .M., Eds.; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK;New York, NY, USA, 2013; pp. 867–952.4. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Climate Change and Land: An IPCC Special Report on Climate Change,Desertiﬁcation, Land Degradation, Sustainable Land Management, Food Security, and Greenhouse Gas Fluxes in Terrestrial Ecosystems ;Shukla, P .R., Skea, J., Calvo Buendia, E., Masson-Delmotte, V ., Pörtner, H.-O., Roberts, D.C., Zhai, P ., Slade, R., Connors, S., vanDiemen, R., Eds.; IPCC: Geneva, Switzerland, 2019.5. Fahey, D.W.; Doherty, S.J.; Hibbard, K.A.; Romanou, A.; Taylor, P .C. Physical drivers of climate change. In Climate Science SpecialReport: Fourth National Climate Assessment ; Wuebbles, D.J., Fahey, D.W., Hibbard, K.A., Dokken, D.J., Stewart, B.C., Maycock, T.K.,Eds.; U.S. Global Change Research Program: Washington, DC, USA, 2017; pp. 73–113. [CrossRef]6. Kundzewicz, Z.W.; Kozyra, J. Climate change impact on Polish agriculture. In Climate Change and Its Impact on Selected Sectors inPoland ; Kundzewicz, Z.W., Hov, Ø., Okruszko, T., Eds.; Ridero IT Publishing: Pozna ´ n, Poland, 2017; pp. 158–171.7. Graczyk, D.; Szwed, M. Changes in the occurrence of late spring frost in Poland. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 1835. [CrossRef]8. Chory´ nski, A.; Pi´ nskwar, I.; Graczyk, D.; Krzy ˙zaniak, M. The emergence of different local resilience arrangements regardingextreme weather events in small municipalities—A case study from the Wielkopolska Region, Poland. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 2052.[CrossRef]9. Rojas-Downing, M.M.; Nejadhashemi, A.P .; Harrigan, T.; Wo´ znicki, S.A. Climate change and livestock: Impacts, adaptation, andmitigation. Clim. Risk Manag. 2017 ,16, 145–163. [CrossRef]10. Añel, J.A.; Fern ández-Gonz ález, M.; Labandeira, X.; L ópez-Otero, X.; de la Torre, L. Impact of cold waves and heat waves on theenergy production sector. Atmosphere 2017 ,8, 209. [CrossRef]11. Graczyk, D.; Pi ´ nskwar, I.; Chory ´ nski, A. Heat-related mortality in two regions of Poland: Focus on urban and rural areas duringthe most severe and long-lasting heatwaves. Atmosphere 2022 ,13, 390. [CrossRef]12. Kundzewicz, Z.W.; Piniewski, M.; Mezghani, A.; Okruszko, T.; Pi ´ nskwar, I.; Kardel, I.; Hov, Ø. Assessment of climate change andassociated impact on selected sectors in Poland. Acta Geophys. 2018 ,66, 1509–1523. [CrossRef]13. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 749/2014 of 30 June 2014 on Structure, Format, Submission Processes andReview of Information Reported by Member States Pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 525/2013 of the European Parliament and ofthe Council. Available online: https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014R0749&from=EN(accessed on 22 May 2022).14. European Council Conclusions 2014. 2030 Climate and Energy Policy Framework. Conclusions—23/24 October 2014, EUCO169/14. Available online: https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/24561/145397.pdf (accessed on 22 May 2022).15. Poore, J.; Nemecek, T. Reducing food’s environmental impacts through producers and consumers. Science 2018 ,360, 987–992.[CrossRef]16. Tubiello, F.N.; Karl, K.; Flammini, A.; Gütschow, J.; Obli-Laryea, G.; Conchedda, G.; Pan, X.; Qi, S.Y.; Halld órudóttir Heiðarsd óttir,H.; Wanner, N.; et al. Pre- and post-production processes increasingly dominate greenhouse gas emissions from agri-food systems.Earth Syst. Sci. Data 2022 ,14, 1795–1809. [CrossRef]17. Rhodes, C.J. The 2015 Paris Climate Change Conference: Cop21. Sci. Prog. 2016 , 97–104. [CrossRef]18. Cifuentes-Faura, J. European Union policies and their role in combating climate change over the years. Air Qual. Atmos. Health2022 ,15, 1333–1340. [CrossRef]19. European Commission. Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the European Council. Sustainable CarbonCycles COM/2021/800 Final ; European Commission: Brussels, Belgium, 2021.20. O’Donoghue, T.; Minasny , B.; McBratney , A. Regenerative agriculture and its potential to improve farmscape function. Sustainability2022 ,14, 5815. [CrossRef]21. Wiltshire, S.; Beckage, B. Soil carbon sequestration through regenerative agriculture in the U.S. state of Vermont. PLoS Clim. 2022 ,1, e0000021. [CrossRef]22. White, R.E. The role of soil carbon sequestration as a climate change mitigation strategy: An Australian case study. Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46. [CrossRef]23. European Commission. Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the European Council, the Council, theEuropean Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, European Green Deal, COM(2019) 640 Final, 11.12.2019 ;European Commission: Brussels, Belgium, 2019.24. Wrzaszcz, W.; Prandecki, K. Agriculture and the European Green Deal. Probl. Agric. Econ. 2020 ,365, 156–179. [CrossRef]Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 17 of 2125. Prandecki, K.; Wrzaszcz, W.; Zieli´ nski, M. Environmental and climate challenges to agriculture in Poland in the context ofobjectives adopted in the European Green Deal strategy. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 10318. [CrossRef]26. European Commission. Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and SocialCommittee and the Committee of the Regions. A Farm to Fork Strategy for a Fair, Healthy and Environmen-Tally-Friendly Food System,COM/2020/381 Final, 20.05.2020 ; European Commission: Brussels, Belgium, 2020.27. European Commission. Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the European Council, the European Economicand Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2030 Bringing Nature back into Our Lives, COM(2020)380 Final, 20.05.2020 ; European Commission: Brussels, Belgium, 2020.28. ´Srednicka-Tober, D.; Obiedzinska, A.; Kazimierczak, R.; Rembiałkowska, E. Environmental impact of organic vs. conventionalagriculture—A review. J. Res. Appl. Agric. Eng. 2016 ,61, 204–211.29. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The Share of Food Systems in Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions.Global, Regional and Country Trends 1990–2019. FAOSTAT Analytical Brief Series No. 31 ; FAO: Rome, Italy, 2021.30. European Environment Agency (EEA). Available online: https://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/data/data-viewers/greenhouse-gases-viewer (accessed on 16 May 2022).31. Vogt, G. The origins of organic farming. In Organic Farming: An International History ; Lockeretz, W., Ed.; CABI: London, UK, 2007;pp. 9–29.32. Migliorini, P .; Wezel, A. Converging and diverging principles and practices of organic agriculture regulations and agroecology. Areview. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2017 ,37, 63. [CrossRef]33. Research Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL). The World of Organic Agriculture. Statistics and Emerging Trends. 2021.Available online: https://www.ﬁbl.org/ﬁleadmin/documents/shop/1150-organic-world-2021.pdf (accessed on 22 May 2022).34. Research Institute of Organic Agriculture (FiBL). Available online: https://statistics.ﬁbl.org/data.html (accessed on 22 May 2022).35. Hanus, G. The phenomenon of ecologisation in the food behaviour of Poles—Results of empirical research. Econ. Environ. 2020 ,73, 71–84. [CrossRef]36. Caffrey, K.R.; Veal, M.V . Conducting an agricultural life cycle assessment: Challenges and perspectives. Sci. World J. 2013 ,2013 ,472431. [CrossRef]37. Roy, P .; Nei, D.; Orikasa, T.; Xu, Q.; Okadome, H.; Nakamura, N.; Shiina, T. A review of life cycle assessment (LCA) on some foodproducts. J. Food Eng. 2009 ,90, 1–10. [CrossRef]38. Klöpffer, W. The role of SETAC in the development of LCA. Int. J. Life Cycle Asses. 2006 ,11, 116–122. [CrossRef]39. Alhashim, R.; Deepa, R.; Anandhi, A. Environmental impact assessment of agricultural production using LCA: A review. Climate2021 ,9, 164. [CrossRef]40. Hospido, A.; Davis, J.; Berlin, J.; Sonesson, U. A review of methodological issues affecting LCA of novel food products. Int. J. LifeCycle Assess. 2010 ,15, 44–52. [CrossRef]41. Nitschelm, L.; Flipo, B.; Chambaut, H.; Colomb, V .; Gac, A.; Dauguet, S.; Espagnol, S.; Le Gall, C.; Perrin, A.; Ponchant, P .;et al. Using life cycle assessment to assess and improve the environmental performance of organic production systems. In Bookof Abstracts of the Science Forum at the Organic World Congress 2021, Rennes, France, 8–10 September 2021 ; Rahmann, G., Rey, F.,Ardakani, R., Azim, K., Chable, V ., Heckendorn, F., Migliorini, P ., Moeskops, B., Neuhoff, D., Rembiałkowska, E., Eds.; JohannHeinrich von Thünen-Institut: Braunschweig, Germany, 2021.42. Nemecek, T.; Bengoa, X.; Lansche, J.; Roesch, A.; Faist-Emmenegger, M.; Rossi, V .; Humbert, S. Methodological Guidelines for theLife Cycle Inventory of Agricultural Products ; Version 3.5. World Food LCA Database (WFLDB); Quantis and Agroscope: Zurich,Switzerland, 2019.43. Del Borghi, A.L.; Moreschi, M.G. Life cycle assessment in the food industry. In The Interaction of Food Industry and Environment ;Galanakis, C., Ed.; Academic Press: London, UK, 2020; pp. 63–118. [CrossRef]44. Sureeyatanapas, P .; Yodprang, K.; Varabuntoonvit, V . Drivers, barriers and beneﬁts of product carbon footprinting: A state-of-the-art survey of Thai manufacturers. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 6543. [CrossRef]45. Tauﬁque, K.; Nielsen, K.; Dietz, T.; Shwom, R.; Stern, P .; Vandenbergh, M. Revisiting the promise of carbon labelling. Nat. Clim.Chang. 2022 ,12, 132–140. [CrossRef]46. P AS 2050:2011. BSI 2011 ; Speciﬁcation for the Assessment of the Life Cycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Goods and Services.British Standards Institute: London, UK, 2011; ISBN 978-0-580-71382-8.47. Guenther, M.; Saunders, C.M.; Tait, P .R. Carbon labeling and consumer attitudes. Carbon Manag. 2012 ,3, 445–455. [CrossRef]48. Guinée, J.B.; Gorr ée, M.; Heijungs, R.; Huppes, G.; Kleijn, R.; de Koning, A.; van Oers, L.; Wegener Sleeswijk, A.; Suh, S.; Udo deHaes, H.A.; et al. Handbook on Life Cycle Assessment. Operational Guide to the ISO Standards. I: LCA in Perspective. IIa: Guide. IIb:Operational Annex. III: Scientiﬁc Background ; Kluwer Academic Publishers: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2002.49. Cucurachi, S.; Scherer, L.; Guinee, J.; Tukker, A. Life cycle assessment of food systems. One Earth 2019 ,1, 292–297. [CrossRef]50. ISO 14040:2006 ; Environmental Management–Life Cycle Assessment–Principles and Framework. International Organization forStandardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2006.51. ISO 14044:2006 ; Environmental Management—Life Cycle Assessment—Requirements and Guidelines. International Organizationfor Standardization: Geneva, Switzerland, 2006.52. Fantozzi, F.; Bartocci, P . Carbon footprint as a tool to limit greenhouse gas emissions. In Greenhouse Gases ; Moya, B.L., Pous, J.,Eds.; IntechOpen: London, UK, 2016. [CrossRef]Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 18 of 2153. Litskas, V .D.; Platis, D.P .; Anagnostopoulos, C.D.; Tsaboula, A.C.; Menexes, G.C.; Kalburtji, K.L.; Stavrinides, M.C.; Mamolos, A.P .Climate change and agriculture: Carbon footprint estimation for agricultural products and labeling for emissions mitigation, In Sustainabilityof the Food System: Sovereignty, Waste, and Nutrients Bioavailability ; Betoret, N., Betoret, E., Eds.; Academic Press: London, UK, 2020;pp. 33–49. [CrossRef]54. Iriarte, A.; Rieradevall, J.; Gabarrell, X. Life cycle assessment of sunﬂower and rapeseed as energy crops under Chilean conditions.J. Clean. Prod. 2010 ,18, 336–345. [CrossRef]55. Gasol, C.M.; Salvia, J.; Serra, J.; Ant ón, A.; Sevigne, E.; Rieradevall, J.; Gabarrell, X. A life cycle assessment of biodiesel productionfrom winter rape grown in Southern Europe. Biomass Bioenergy 2012 ,40, 71–81. [CrossRef]56. Hergoualc’h, K.; Akiyama, H.; Bernoux, M.; Chirinda, N.; del Prado, A.; Kasimir, Å.; MacDonald, J.D.; Ogle, S.M.; Regina, K.; vander Weerden, T.J. N 2O emissions from managed soils, and CO 2emissions from lime and urea application. In 2019 Reﬁnement tothe 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories ; Buendia, E., Tanabe, K., Kranjc, A., Baasansuren, J., Fukuda, M.,Ngarize, S., Osako, A., Pyrozhenko, Y., Shermanau, P ., Federici, S., Eds.; IPCC: Geneva, Switzerland, 2019; Chapter 11; Availableonline: https://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2019rf/pdf/4_Volume4/19R_V4_Ch11_Soils_N2O_CO2.pdf (accessed on10 May 2022).57. Committee on a Framework for Assessing the Health, Environmental, and Social Effects of the Food System; Food and NutritionBoard; Board on Agriculture and Natural Resources; Institute of Medicine; National Research Council; Nesheim, M.C.; Oria, M.;Yih, P .T. (Eds.) A Framework for Assessing Effects of the Food System ; ANNEX 4, Nitrogen in Agroecosystems; National AcademiesPress: Washington, DC, USA, 2015. Available online: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK305171/ (accessed on 10 May2022).58. Myhre, G.; Shindell, D.; Br éon, F.-M.; Collins, W.; Fuglestvedt, J.; Huang, J.; Koch, D.; Lamarque, J.-F.; Lee, D.; Mendoza, B.; et al.Anthropogenic and Natural Radiative Forcing. In Climate Change 2013: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I tothe Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; Stocker, T.F., Qin, D., Plattner, G.-K., Tignor, M., Allen,S.-K., Boschung, J., Nauels, A., Xia, Y., Bex, V ., Midgley, P .M., Eds.; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK; New York, NY,USA, 2013.59. Emmerling, C.; Krein, A.; Junk, J. Meta-analysis of strategies to reduce NH 3emissions from slurries in European agriculture andconsequences for greenhouse gas emissions. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 1633. [CrossRef]60. Mahmud, K.; Panday, D.; Mergoum, A.; Missaoui, A. Nitrogen losses and potential mitigation strategies for a sustainableagroecosystem. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 2400. [CrossRef]61. Chmel íková, L.; Schmid, H.; Anke, S.; Hülsbergen, K.-J. Nitrogen-use efﬁciency of organic and conventional arable and dairyfarming systems in Germany. Nutr. Cycl. Agroecosyst. 2021 ,119, 337–354. [CrossRef]62. Severin, M.; Fuß, R.; Well, R.; Garlipp, F.; Van den Weghe, H. Soil, slurry and application effects on greenhouse gas emissions.Plant Soil Environ. 2015 ,61, 344–351. [CrossRef]63. Sieling, K.; Kage, H. Efﬁcient N management using winter oilseed rape. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2010 ,30, 271–279.[CrossRef]64. Kuikmann, P .J.; van der Hoek, K.W.; Smit, A.; Zwart, K. Update of Emission Factors for Nitrous Oxide from Agricultural Soils onthe Basis of Measurements in the Netherlands. Alterra Report. 1217. Available online: https://edepot.wur.nl/24831 (accessed on10 May 2022).65. Schäfer, F.; Blanke, M. Farming and marketing system affects carbon and water footprint - A case study using Hokaido pumpkin.J. Clean. Prod. 2012 ,28, 113–119. [CrossRef]66. Petersen, S.O.; Sommer, S.G. Ammonia and nitrous oxide interactions: Roles of manure organic matter management. Anim. FeedSci. Technol. 2011 ,166–167 , 503–513. [CrossRef]67. Wang, C.; Amon, B.; Schulz, K.; Mehdi, B. Factors that inﬂuence nitrous oxide emissions from agricultural soils as well as theirrepresentation in simulation models: A review. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 770. [CrossRef]68. Powell, J.M.; Jokela, W.E.; Misselbrook, T.H. Dairy slurry application method impacts ammonia emission and nitrate leaching inno-till corn silage. J. Environ. Qual. 2011 ,40, 383–392. [CrossRef]69. Bouwman, A.F.; Boumans, L.J.M.; Batjes, N.H. Modeling global annual N 2O and NO emissions from fertilized ﬁelds. Glob.Biogeochem. Cycles 2002 ,16, 1080. [CrossRef]70. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Physical Science Basis. Working Group I Contribution to the Fourth AssessmentReport of the IPCC ; Solomon, S., Qin, D., Manning, M., Chen, Z., Marquis, M., Avery, K., Tignor, M., Miller, H., Eds.; CambridgeUniversity Press: Cambridge, UK; New York, NY, USA, 2007.71. Robertson, G.P .; Bruulsema, T.W.; Gehl, R.J.; Kanter, D.; Mauzerall, D.L.; Rotz, C.A.; Wiliams, C.O. Nitrogen–climate interactionsin US agriculture. Biogeochemistry 2013 ,114, 41–70. [CrossRef]72. Sommer, S.G.; Schjoerring, J.K.; Denmead, O.T. Ammonia emission from mineral fertilizers and fertilized crops. Adv. Agronomy2004 ,82, 557–622. [CrossRef]73. Bie´ nkowski, J.F.; D ˛ abrowicz, R.; Holka, M.; Jankowiak, J. Carbon footprint of rapeseed in conventional farming: Case study oflarge-sized farms in Wielkopolska Region (Poland). Asian J. Appl. Sci. Eng. 2015 ,4, 191–200.74. Brentrup, F.; Palliere, C. GHG emission and energy efﬁciency in European nitrogen fertilizer production and use. In Proceedingsof the International Fertiliser Society Conference, Cambridge, UK, 11 December 2008; International Fertiliser Socciety: York, UK,2018; pp. 1–25.Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 19 of 2175. Beckman, J.; Riche, S. Changes to the natural gas corn, and fertilizer price relationships from the biofuels era. J. Agric. Appl. Econ.2015 ,47, 494–509. [CrossRef]76. Ghavam, S.; Vahdati, M.; Wilson, I.A.G.; Styring, P . Sustainable ammonia production processes. Front. Energy Res. 2021 ,9, 580808.[CrossRef]77. Liu, C.; Cutforth, H.; Chai, Q.; Gan, Y. Farming tactics to reduce the carbon footprint of crop cultivation in semiarid areas. Areview. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2016 ,36, 69. [CrossRef]78. Herridge, D.F.; Peoples, M.B.; Boddey, R.M. Global inputs of biological nitrogen ﬁxation in agricultural systems. Plant Soil 2008 ,311, 1–18. [CrossRef]79. Holka, M.; Jankowiak, J.; Bie´ nkowski, J.F.; D ˛ abrowicz, R. Life cycle assessment (LCA) of winter wheat in an intensive croppro-duction system in Wielkopolska region (Poland). Appl. Ecol. Environ. Res. 2016 ,14, 535–545. [CrossRef]80. Holka, M. Environmental impact assessment of chemical plant protection in intensive crop production. J. Cent. Eur. Agric. 2017 ,18, 529–541. [CrossRef]81. Matyjaszczyk, E. Plant protection in Poland on the eve of obligatory Integrated Pest Management implementation. Pest Manag.Sci.2013 ,69, 991–995. [CrossRef]82. Harker, K.; O’Donovan, J.; Irvine, R.; Turkington, T.; Clayton, G. Integrating cropping systems with cultural techniques augmentswild oat ( Avena fatua ) management in barley. Weed Sci. 2009 ,57, 326–337. [CrossRef]83. Piwowar, A. The use of pesticides in Polish agriculture after integrated pest management (IPM) implementation. Environ. Sci.Pollut. Res. Int. 2021 ,28, 26628–26642. [CrossRef]84. Gołasa, P .; Wysoki ´ nski, M.; Bie ´ nkowska-Gołasa, W.; Gradziuk, P .; Golonko, M.; Gradziuk, B.; Siedlecka, A.; Gromada, A. Sourcesof greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture, with particular emphasis on emissions from energy used. Energies 2021 ,14, 3784.[CrossRef]85. Lal, R. Soil carbon sequestration impacts on global climate change and food security. Science 2004 ,304, 1623–1627. [CrossRef]86. Moitzi, G.; Wagentristl, H.; Refenner, K.; Weingartmann, H.; Piringer, G.; Boxberger, J.; Gronauer, A. Effects of working depth andwheel slip on fuel consumption of selected tillage implements. Agric. Eng. Int. CIGR J. 2014 ,16, 182–190.87. Sarauskis, E.; Buragien ˙e, S.; Romaneckas, K.; Sakalauskas, A.; Algirdas, J.; Vaiciukeviˇ cius, E.; Karayel, D. Working time, fuelconsumption and economic analysis of different tillage and sowing systems in Lithuania. Eng. Rural Dev. 2012 ,11, 52–59.88. Fathollahzadeh, H.; Hossein, M.; Tabatabaie, S.M.H. Effect of ploughing depth on average and instantaneous tractor fuelconsumption with three-share disc plough. Int. Agrophys. 2009 ,23, 399–402.89. Filipovic, D.; Kosutic, S.; Gospodaric, Z.; Zimmer, R.; Banaj, Ð. The possibilities of fuel savings and the reduction of CO 2emissionsin the soil tillage in Croatia. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2006 ,115, 290–294. [CrossRef]90. Saldukait ˙e, L.; ŠArauskis, E.; Zabrodskyi, A.; Adamaviˇ cien ˙e, A.; Buragien ˙e, S.; Kriauˇ ci ¯unien ˙e, Z.; Savickas, D. Assessment ofenergy saving and GHG reduction of winter oilseed rape production using sustainable strip tillage and direct sowing in threetillage technologies. Sustain. Energy Technol. Assess. 2022 ,51, 101911. [CrossRef]91. Hoeppner, J.W.; Entz, M.; Mcconkey, B.G.; Zentner, R.P .; Nagy, C. Energy use and efﬁciency in two Canadian organic andconventional crop production systems. Renew. Agric. Food Syst. 2006 ,21, 60–67. [CrossRef]92. Lynch, D.H.; Halberg, N.; Bhatta, G.D. Environmental impacts of organic agriculture in temperate regions. CAB Rev. 2012 ,7, 1–17.[CrossRef]93. Reganold, J.; Wachter, J. Organic agriculture in the twenty-ﬁrst century. Nat. Plants 2016 ,2, 15221. [CrossRef]94. Smith, L.; Williams, A.; Pearce, B. The energy efﬁciency of organic agriculture: A review. Renew. Agric. Food Syst. 2015 ,30,280–301. [CrossRef]95. Tuomisto, H.; Hodge, I.D.; Riordan, P .; Macdonald, D.W. Does organic farming reduce environmental impacts?—A meta-analysisof European research. J. Environ. Manag. 2012 ,112, 309–320. [CrossRef]96. Navarro-Pedreño, J.; Almendro-Candel, M.B.; Zorpas, A.A. The increase of soil organic matter reduces global warming, Myth orReality? Science 2021 ,3, 18. [CrossRef]97. Hussain, S.; Hussain, S.; Guo, R.; Sarwar, M.; Ren, X.; Krstic, D.; Aslam, Z.; Zulifqar, U.; Rauf, A.; Hano, C.; et al. Carbonsequestration to avoid soil degradation: A review on the role of conservation tillage. Plants 2021 ,10, 2001. [CrossRef]98. Abdalla, M.; Hastings, A.; Cheng, K.; Yue, Q.; Chadwick, D.; Espenberg, M.; Truu, J.; Rees, R.M.; Smith, P . A critical review ofthe impacts of cover crops on nitrogen leaching, net greenhouse gas balance and crop productivity. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2019 ,25,2530–2543. [CrossRef]99. Peixoto, L.; Olesen, J.E.; Elsgaard, L.; Enggrob, K.L.; Banﬁeld, C.; Dippold, M.; Nicolaisen, M.; Bak, F.; Zang, H.; Dresbøll, D.; et al.Deep-rooted perennial crops differ in capacity to stabilize C inputs in deep soil layers. Sci. Rep. 2022 ,12, 5952. [CrossRef]100. Petersen, B.; Knudsen, M.; Hermansen, J.; Halberg, N. An approach to include soil carbon changes in life cycle assessments.J. Clean. Prod. 2013 ,52, 217–224. [CrossRef]101. Sperow, M. What might it cost to increase soil organic carbon using no-till on U.S. cropland? Carbon Balance Manag. 2020 ,15, 26.[CrossRef]102. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Prepared by theNational Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme ; Eggleston, H.S., Buendia, L., Miwa, K., Ngara, T., Tanabe, K., Eds.; 2006. Availableonline: https://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/ (accessed on 10 May 2022).Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 20 of 21103. Smith, P .; Martino, D.; Cai, Z.; Gwary, D.; Janzen, H.; Kumar, P .; McCarl, B.; Ogle, S.; O’Mara, F.; Rice, C.; et al. Greenhouse gasmitigation in agriculture. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 2008 ,363, 789–813. [CrossRef]104. Knudsen, M.T.; Meyer-Aurich, A.; Olesen, J.E.; Chirinda, N.; Hermansen, J.E. Carbon footprints of crops from organic andconventional arable crop rotations—Using a life cycle assessment approach. J. Clean. Prod. 2014 ,64, 609–618. [CrossRef]105. Kwiatkowski, C.; Harasim, E.; Pawlowski, L. Can catch crops be an important factor in carbon dioxide sequestration? Int. J.Conserv. Sci. 2020 ,11, 1005–1018.106. Smith, P .; Powlson, D.; Glendining, M.; Smith, J. Potential for carbon sequestration in European soils: Preliminary estimates forﬁve scenarios using results from long-term experiments. Glob. Chang. Biol. 1997 ,3, 67–79. [CrossRef]107. Bie´ nkowski, J. Mulicriterial anaysis of possibilities of farm sustainable development with consideration of environmental andeconomic factors. Monogr. Rozpr. Nauk. 2011 ,29, 171.108. Ogle, S.M.; Breidt, F.J.; Paustian, K. Agricultural management impacts on soil organic carbon storage under moist and dry climaticconditions of temperate and tropical regions. Biogeochemistry 2005 ,72, 87–121. [CrossRef]109. West, T.; Marland, G. A synthesis of carbon sequestration, carbon emissions, and net carbon ﬂux in agriculture: Comparing tillagepractices in the United States. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2002 ,9, 217–232. [CrossRef]110. Ogle, S.M.; Breidt, F.J.; Eve, M.D.; Paustian, K. Uncertainty in estimating land use and management impacts on soil organiccarbon storage for US agricultural lands between 1982 and 1997. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2003 ,9, 1521–1542. [CrossRef]111. Zhang, Z.; Zimmermann, N.E.; Stenke, A.; Li, X.; Hodson, E.L.; Zhu, G.; Huang, C.; Poulter, B. Emerging role of wetland methaneemissions in driving 21st century climate change. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2017 ,114, 9647–9652. [CrossRef]112. Stalenga, J.; Kawalec, A. Evaluation of the impact of different production systems on the level of emissions of nitrous oxide andthe balance of soil organic substances. Acta Agroph. Rozpr. Monogr. 2007 ,150, 73–75.113. Brock, C.; Oberholzer, H.-R.; Schwarz, J.; Fliessbach, A.; Hülsbergen, K.-J.; Koch, W.; Pallutt, B.; Reinicke, F.; Leithold, G. Soilorganic matter balances in organic versus conventional farming—Modelling in ﬁeld experiments and regional upscaling forcropland in Germany. Org. Agric. 2012 ,2, 185–195. [CrossRef]114. Borek, R. Agroforestry systems in Poland A preliminary identiﬁcation. Pap. Glob. Chang. IGBP 2015 ,22, 37–51. [CrossRef]115. Rosati, A.; Borek, R.; Canali, S. Agroforestry and organic agriculture. Agroforest. Syst. 2021 ,95, 805–821. [CrossRef]116. Bie ´ nkowski, J.; Jankowiak, J. Agro-ecological evaluation of the Wielkopolska region. Pam. Puław. 2001 ,124, 15–24.117. Guo, L.B.; Gifford, R.M. Soil carbon stocks and land use change: A meta analysis. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2002 ,8, 345–360. [CrossRef]118. Hellebrand, H.J.; Strähle, M.; Scholz, V .; Kern, J. Soil carbon, soil nitrate and soil emissions of nitrous oxide during cultivation ofenergy crops. Nutr. Cycl. Agoecosyst. 2010 ,87, 175–186. [CrossRef]119. Falloon, P .; Powlson, D.; Smith, P . Managing ﬁeld margins for biodiversity and carbon sequestration: A Great Britain case study.Soil Use Manag. 2004 ,20, 240–247. [CrossRef]120. Biernat-Jarka, A.; Tr˛ ebska, P . The importance of organic farming in the context of sustainable development of rural areas inPoland. Acta Sci. Pol. Oeconomia 2018 ,17, 39–47. [CrossRef]121. Moudr ý, J., Jr.; Moudr ý, J. Environmental aspects of organic farming. In Organic Agriculture towards Sustainability ; Pilipavicius, V .,Ed.; IntechOpen: London, UK, 2014. [CrossRef]122. Foteinis, S.; Chatzisymeon, E. Life cycle assessment of organic versus conventional agriculture. A case study of lettuce cultivationin Greece. J. Clean. Prod. 2015 ,112, 2462–2471. [CrossRef]123. Chiriac ò, M.; Grossi, G.; Castaldi, S.; Valentini, R. The contribution to climate change of the organic versus conventional wheatfarming: A case study on the carbon footprint of wholemeal bread production in Italy. J. Clean. Prod. 2017 ,153, 309–319.[CrossRef]124. Van Stappen, F.; Loriers, A.; Mathot, M.; Planchon, V .; Stilmant, D.; Debode, F. Organic versus conventional farming: The case ofwheat production in Wallonia (Belgium). Agric. Agric. Sci. Procedia 2015 ,7, 272–279. [CrossRef]125. Williams, A.G.; Audsley, E.; Sandars, D.L. Environmental burdens of producing bread wheat, oilseed rape and potatoes inEngland and Wales using simulation and system modelling. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2010 ,15, 855–868. [CrossRef]126. Foteinis, S.; Hatzisymeon, M.; Borthwick, A.G.L.; Chatzisymeon, E. Environmental impacts of conventional versus organiceggplant cultivation systems: Inﬂuence of electricity mix, yield, over-fertilization, and transportation. Environments 2021 ,8, 23.[CrossRef]127. Aguilera, E.; Guzm án, G.; Alonso, A. Greenhouse gas emissions from conventional and organic cropping systems in Spain. II.Fruit tree orchards. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2015 ,35, 725–737. [CrossRef]128. Al-Mansour, F.; Jejˇ ciˇ c, V . Carbon footprint of conventional and organic crops production on family farms in Slovenia. In Bookof Abstracts of the 1st South East European Conference on Sustainable Development of Energy, Water and Environment Systems, Ohrid,Republic of Macedonia, 29 June–3 July 2014 ; Faculty of Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architecture: Zagreb, Croatia, 2014.129. Backer, E.; Aertsens, J.; Vergucht, S.; Steurbaut, W. Assessing the ecological soundness of organic and conventional agriculture bymeans of life cycle assessment (LCA). Brit. Food J. 2009 ,111, 1028–1061. [CrossRef]130. Scuderi, A.; Cammarata, M.; Branca, F.; Timpanaro, G. Agricultural production trends towards carbon neutrality in response tothe EU 2030 Green Deal: Economic and environmental analysis in horticulture. Agric. Econ. Czech. 2021 ,67, 435–444. [CrossRef]131. Chatzisymeon, E.; Foteinis, S.; Borthwick, A.G.L. Life cycle assessment of the environmental performance of conventional andorganic methods of open ﬁeld pepper cultivation system. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2017 ,22, 896–908. [CrossRef]Agriculture 2022 ,12, 1383 21 of 21132. Moudr ý, J., Jr.; Jel ínková, Z.; Moudr ý, J.; Konvalina, P . Greenhouse gases emissions within the production of potatoes in CentralEurope. Lucr. ¸ Stiin¸ t. Inst. Agron. 2012 ,55, 19–22.133. Jelínková, Z.; Moudr ý, J., Jr.; Moudr ý, J.; Kopeck ý, M.; Bernas, J. Life cycle assessment method—Tool for evaluation of greenhousegases emissions from agriculture and food processing. In Greenhouse Gases ; Moya, B.L., Pous, J., Eds.; IntechOpen: London, UK,2016. [CrossRef]134. Gomiero, T.; Paoletti, M.; Pimentel, D. Energy and environmental issues in organic and conventional agriculture. Crit. Rev. PlantSci.2008 ,27, 239–254. [CrossRef]135. Camposeo, S.; Vivaldi, G.A.; Russo, G.; Melucci, F.M. Intensiﬁcation in olive growing reduces global warming potential underboth integrated and organic farming. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 6389. [CrossRef]136. Van der Werf, H.M.; Knudsen, M.T.; Cederberg, C. Towards better representation of organic agriculture in life cycle assessment.Nat. Sustain. 2020 ,3, 419–425. [CrossRef]137. Costa, M.; Chadwick, D.; Saget, S.; Rees, B.; Williams, M.; Styles, D. Representing crop rotations in life cycle assessment: A reviewof legume LCA studies. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2020 ,25, 1–15. [CrossRef]138. Montemayor, E.; Andrade, E.; Bonmat í, A.; Ant ón, A. Critical analysis of life cycle inventory datasets for organic crop productionsystems. Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 2022 ,27, 1–21. [CrossRef]139. Ecoinvent Center Ecoinvent Database Website. Available online: http://www.ecoinvent.ch/ (accessed on 10 June 2022).140. Colomb, V .; Ait-Amar, S.; Basset-Mens, C.; Gac, A.; Gaillard, G.; Koch, P .; Mousset, J.; Salou, T.; Tailleur, A.; Van Der Werf,H.M. AGRIBALYSE®, the French LCI Database for Agricultural Products: High Quality Data for Producers and EnvironmentalLabelling. Oilseeds Fats Crop. Lipids 2015 ,22, D104. [CrossRef]