minerals ReviewRole of Fungi in the Biomineralization of CalciteSaskia Bindschedler1,*, Guillaume Cailleau2and Eric Verrecchia21Laboratory of Microbiology, University of Neuchâtel, 2000 Neuchâtel, Switzerland2Institute of Earth Surface Dynamics, University of Lausanne, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland;guillaume.cailleau@gmail.com (G.C.); eric.verrecchia@unil.ch (E.V .)*Correspondence: saskia.bindschedler@unine.ch; Tel.: +41-32-718-2252Academic Editors: Karim Benzerara, Jennyfer Miot and Thibaud CoradinReceived: 29 February 2016; Accepted: 28 April 2016; Published: 5 May 2016Abstract: In the ﬁeld of microbial biomineralization, much of the scientiﬁc attention is focused onprocesses carried out by prokaryotes, in particular bacteria, even though fungi are also known to beinvolved in biogeochemical cycles in numerous ways. They are traditionally recognized as key playersin organic matter recycling, as nutrient suppliers via mineral weathering, as well as large producersof organic acids such as oxalic acid for instance, an activity leading to the genesis of various metalcomplexes such as metal-oxalate. Their implications in the transformation of various mineral andmetallic compounds has been widely acknowledged during the last decade, however, currently, theircontribution to the genesis of a common biomineral, calcite, needs to be more thoroughly documented.Calcite is observed in many ecosystems and plays an essential role in the biogeochemical cycles ofboth carbon (C) and calcium (Ca). It may be physicochemical or biogenic in origin and numerousorganisms have been recognized to control or induce its biomineralization. While fungi have oftenbeen suspected of being involved in this process in terrestrial environments, only scarce informationsupports this hypothesis in natural settings. As a result, calcite biomineralization by microbes isstill largely attributed to bacteria at present. However, in some terrestrial environments there areparticular calcitic habits that have been described as being fungal in origin. In addition to this, severalstudies dealing with axenic cultures of fungi have demonstrated the ability of fungi to produce calcite.Examples of fungal biomineralization range from induced to organomineralization processes. Moreexamples of calcite biomineralization related to direct fungal activity, or at least to their presence,have been described within the last decade. However, the peculiar mechanisms leading to calcitebiomineralization by fungi remain incompletely understood and more research is necessary, posingnew exciting questions linked to microbial biomineralization processes.Keywords: biomineralization; fungi; CaCO 3; calcite; geomycology1. IntroductionBiomineralization is deﬁned as the formation of a mineral as a result of biological activity [ 1]. Threelevels of biological mediation over the formation of biominerals can be deﬁned [ 2,3]: (i) biologicallycontrolled mineralization (BCM), when crystal nucleation, growth and morphology are under the tightgenomic control of an organism; (ii) biologically induced mineralization (BIM), when biological activityinduces physicochemical changes in the environment resulting in mineral nucleation and growth, alsoinﬂuencing mineral morphology; (iii) biologically inﬂuenced mineralization (or organomineralizationsensu stricto ; [2]) involving a biological matrix to initiate or enhance crystal nucleation and growth,with an inﬂuence on mineral morphology. Importantly, in this last type of biomineralization, livingorganisms are not directly required and only the organic fraction matters as a template for nucleation.For this reason, Trichet and Défarge [ 4] deﬁned organomineralization as a “precipitation mediatedby non-living organic substrates in soils and sediments” and this is the deﬁnition that will be usedthroughout this contribution.Minerals 2016 ,6, 41; doi:10.3390/min6020041 www.mdpi.com/journal/mineralsMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 2 of 19The term microbe encompasses diverse organisms that are too small to be visible to the naked eyeand belonging to both the Prokaryotes (bacteria and archaea) and the Eukaryotes (fungi, protists, andmicroscopic algae; [ 5]). All of them are involved in at least one type of biomineralization. For instance,BCM is common in algae and protists, but also very widespread in macroscopic pluricellular organisms(skeletons, shells, etc.; [6]). As a result, it is considered of minor importance in the microbial worldexcept in the case of magnetotactic bacteria [ 7]. On the contrary, the two other types of biomineralization(BIM and organomineralization) are very common in microbes. Numerous examples exist in thescientiﬁc literature dealing with microbial BIM (e.g., [ 8–11]). Organomineralization studies publishedin the last decade demonstrate that this process might be of greater importance than previously thought(e.g., [ 2,3,12–14]). In particular, microbes with their minute sizes (1–20 m) exhibit large surface tovolume ratio and therefore microbial surfaces and residues represent a very large fraction of potentialorganic templates for mineral precipitation.Among biominerals, calcite and aragonite (two polymorphs of calcium carbonate, CaCO 3) are themost commonly encountered minerals [ 15]. As a matter of fact, CaCO 3biominerals precipitated under,or related to the inﬂuence of biological processes are widespread and represent a greater contributionto the CaCO 3pool on Earth than physicochemical CaCO 3[16,17]. As a result, CaCO 3biominerals arefound in a myriad of different habits. Their recognition as biominerals, as well as the actual processesthat led to their formation, are sometimes difﬁcult to assess. In particular, biominerals from biologicallyinduced or inﬂuenced mineralization often exhibit poorly deﬁned shapes in contrast to biomineralsformed under controlled conditions [ 18]. As a result, when observed in association with a givenorganism, attributing their formation to the activity of this organism is not always straightforward.Biominerals and biomineralization are important ﬁelds in both geo- and bio-sciences because oftheir great inﬂuence in global biogeochemical cycles: CaCO 3minerals are of major importance in boththe global carbon (C) and calcium (Ca) biogeochemical cycles. Therefore, processes related to theirdissolution and precipitation are of major interest in our understanding of how microbes inﬂuenceglobal biogeochemical cycles at their microscopic scale. In addition, biominerals represent criticalindicators of past environmental conditions when observed in fossil records, as they offer testimonyto biological activity [ 1]. Therefore their clear recognition as biominerals and the processes to whichthey might be related, are of great signiﬁcance [ 1,2]. Finally, in an era of increased pressure to ﬁndsustainable solutions to our industrial way of life it has become more important than ever to utilizemicrobes as catalysts for some activities such as metal decontamination for example, and presses theneed to more thoroughly characterize the diversity of biomineralization processes linked to microbes.The aim of this contribution is to review the latest advances in the ﬁeld of CaCO 3fungalbiomineralization. In order to set the context, a brief deﬁnition of the fungal kingdom will be presentedtogether with its role in global biogeochemical cycles. Then a thorough review of what is knowncurrently about fungal biominerals will be presented, with an emphasis on fungal CaCO 3biomineralsincluding both a literature review, as well as the work of the authors. Finally, the last part willbe devoted to what the reasons might be for the lack of knowledge regarding the ﬁeld of fungalbiomineralization when compared to prokaryotic biomineralization.2. Fungi in the GeobiosphereFungi are ubiquitous on the surface of the Earth, wherever oxygen is present; they are also able tolive in the absence of oxygen, however, this is not their main lifestyle. Soils are believed to be theirmost characteristic habitat where their biomass can reach 75% of the soil microbial biomass [ 19]. Theyare also very common in more oligotrophic environments such as caves and rock surfaces [ 20–22].Finally, they are also common inhabitants of aquatic ecosystems such as streams and lakes and areeven observed down in deep-sea environments [23,24].Fungi are chemo-organo-heterotrophic organisms and therefore depend on organic matter inorder to sustain their metabolism. They obtain their carbon source either from dead organic matter(as saprotrophs) or from associations with living partners (either as mutualistic or parasitic symbionts).Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 3 of 19Mutualistic symbiosis may occur with plants (mycorrhizae), cyanobacteria or algae (lichens) and evenwith animals [ 25,26]. These mutualistic symbioses have a paramount importance in terms of globalbiogeochemical cycling of elements [ 20,25]. Fungi acquire their nutrients by absorption, meaning thatthey must ﬁrst pre-digest their substrate using hydrolytic or oxidative enzymes secreted in the externalenvironments. Solubilized nutrients are then transported inside their cells.Most fungi are multicellular, exhibiting a branched ﬁlamentous growth habit called the mycelium.This vegetative structure consists of rigid tubular hyphae made of elongated cells arranged one afterthe other [ 26]. Hyphae have a very high mechanical resistance resulting from the presence of the fungalcell wall, an highly rigid structure and the turgor pressure exerted by the protoplast on the inner sideof the cell wall [ 27,28]. Thanks to this high mechanical resistance, fungal hyphae have been observedactively drilling into mineral substrates [29,30].Hyphae grow apically with new apices arising from the creation of lateral branches forminga three-dimensional network (Figure 1). This particularity allows them to explore and exploit theirenvironment while maintaining exponential growth by branching. This pattern is of great advantage tofungi as they usually live in environments displaying both nutritional and structural spatio-temporalheterogeneities [ 31]. Metabolically active cytoplasm usually move forward together with the expandinghyphal tips as a result of exploiting heterogeneous substrates, leaving the older parts of the myceliumas empty tubes [ 28,32]. In soils for instance, it has been shown that most of the hyphal networkis actually made of empty hyphae [ 33], which are, however, important for the functionality of thewhole mycelium.Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 3 of 18  Fungi are chemo-organo-heterotrophic organism s and therefore depend on organic matter in order to sustain their metabolism. They obtain their carbon source either from dead organic matter (as saprotrophs) or from associations with livi ng partners (either as mutualistic or parasitic symbionts). Mutualistic symbiosis may occur with plants (mycorrhizae), cyanobacteria or algae (lichens) and even with animals [25,26]. These mutualistic symbioses have a paramount importance in terms of global biogeochemical cycling of el ements [20,25]. Fungi acquire their nutrients by absorption, meaning that they must first pre-digest their substrate using hydrolytic or oxidative enzymes secreted in the external environments. So lubilized nutrients are then transported inside their cells. Most fungi are multicellular, exhibiting a br anched filamentous growth habit called the mycelium. This vegetative structure consists of  rigid tubular hyphae made of elongated cells arranged one after the other [26]. Hyphae have a ve ry high mechanical resistance resulting from the presence of the fungal cell wall, an highly rigi d structure and the turgor pressure exerted by the protoplast on the inner side of the cell wall [27,28]. Thanks to this high mechanical resistance, fungal hyphae have been observed actively drilling into mineral substrates [29,30]. Hyphae grow apically with new apices arising from the creation of lateral branches forming a three-dimensional network (Figure 1). This particul arity allows them to explore and exploit their environment while maintaining exponential growth by branching. This pattern is of great advantage to fungi as they usually live in environments displaying both nutritional and structural spatio-temporal heterogeneities [31]. Metabolically active cytoplasm usually move forward together with the expanding hyphal tips as a result of ex ploiting heterogeneous substrates, leaving the older parts of the mycelium as empty tubes [28,32]. In soil s for instance, it has been shown that most of the hyphal network is actually made of empty hyphae [33], which are, however, important for the functionality of the whole mycelium.  Figure 1.  (A) Hyphal filamentous structure showing cells arranged one after the other, with the formation of ramification by cell branching; ( B) Typical two-dimensional morphology of a mycelium as a result of the hyphal branched pattern.  Metabolic activity of a mycelial network is hi ghly heterogeneous and depends mostly on the available nutrients [34,35]. Extensive translocation of nutrients and water occurs between metabolically active parts. As a result, the mycelia l network can be described as a real logistic  network [36,37]. Besides multicellular fungi, there are also unicellular fungi as well as polymorphic fungi, which are able to change from a uni- to a multi-cellular lifestyle as a result of abiotic or biotic stimuli. Finally, fungi reproduce both sexually and asexually, resulting in the formation of numerous types of spores [26]. Spores are used both for resistance  to unfavourable conditions and for dispersion. As a result, the density of fungal spores in the aerial environment is high and allows the ubiquitous d i s t r i b u t i o n  o f  f u n g i  i n  t e r r e s t r i a l  e n v i r o n m e n t s  t o  b e  e x p l a i n e d .  S p o r e s  a r e  s o  c o m m o n  i n  t h e  atmosphere that they contribute to cloud formation [38,39]. Figure 1. (A) Hyphal ﬁlamentous structure showing cells arranged one after the other, with theformation of ramiﬁcation by cell branching; ( B) Typical two-dimensional morphology of a mycelium asa result of the hyphal branched pattern.Metabolic activity of a mycelial network is highly heterogeneous and depends mostly on theavailable nutrients [ 34,35]. Extensive translocation of nutrients and water occurs between metabolicallyactive parts. As a result, the mycelial network can be described as a real logistic network [36,37].Besides multicellular fungi, there are also unicellular fungi as well as polymorphic fungi, which areable to change from a uni- to a multi-cellular lifestyle as a result of abiotic or biotic stimuli. Finally, fungireproduce both sexually and asexually, resulting in the formation of numerous types of spores [ 26].Spores are used both for resistance to unfavourable conditions and for dispersion. As a result, thedensity of fungal spores in the aerial environment is high and allows the ubiquitous distribution offungi in terrestrial environments to be explained. Spores are so common in the atmosphere that theycontribute to cloud formation [38,39].Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 4 of 19In phylogenetic terms, the fungal kingdom is a monophyletic group [ 40]. In a simpliﬁed way,the fungal tree of life can be described as containing ﬁve phyla: Chytridiomycota, Zygomycota,Glomeromycota, Ascomycota and Basidiomycota [26] (Figure 2).Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 4 of 18  In phylogenetic terms, the fungal kingdom is a monophyletic group [40]. In a simplified way, the fungal tree of life can be described as containing five phyla: Chytridiomycota, Zygomycota, Glomeromycota, Ascomycota and Basidiomycota [26] (Figure 2).  Figure 2.  Simplified phylogenetic tree of Fungi showin g the five main phyla currently defined. For each phylum, one typical morp hological example is shown.  Chytridiomycota is a primitive group of mostly unicellular fungi with both parasitic and saprophytic lifestyles. Zygomycota comprise of many opportunistic fungi, either parasitic or saprotrophic. Glomeromycota form characteristic associations with plants called endomycorrhizas or arbuscular mycrorhizal fungi (AMF). Over 80% of land plants are involved in a mutualistic association with AMF and therefore Glomeromycota represent a phyla of major importance for the functioning of most terrestrial ecosystems [41]. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota belong to the sub-kingdom Dikarya which represents 98% of the fungal diversity described currently [42]. Both uni- and multi-cellular forms are observed within the Dikarya. Ascomycota represent the largest fraction of fungi desc ribed currently with 64% of the described fungal species. They are ubiquitous in  the environment and two of their most prominent lifestyles are related to either lichen symbioses or to  parasitism of plants and animals. However, they are also common mycorrhizal fungi, as well as saprotrophs. Additionally, some have developed an extremophilic lifestyle by colonizing rock surf aces in extreme environments (microcolonial  fungi [21]). Finally, Basidiomycota account for 34% of the total described fungal diversity. They are the common mushroom forming fungi and are well known as ectomycorrhizal mutualistic symbionts of trees in boreal and temperate forest s [41]. However, they are also common saprotrophs and parasites of plants and animals. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota exploit highly varied ecological niches from organic rich to very oligotrophic mineral environments and are therefore important players in global biogeochemical cycles. 3. Importance of Fungi in the Biogeochemical Cycles of Elements Geomycology, a term coined by Professor Geoffr ey M. Gadd and his team, is the field that investigates the role of fungi in biogeochemical cycles [25,43,44]. Traditionally, fungi have been considered as key players in the global C biogeoch emical cycle thanks to their ability to recycle organic matter, either through saprophytic or parasiti c lifestyles. This activity typically leads to the release of CO2 and major nutrients such as N, P and S (Figure 3; [25]). However, fungi also interact with metals and other inorganic minerals and ther efore are also involved in the biogeochemical cycling of compounds such as Fe, Ca, K, P, Mg,  etc. Typically, fungi involved in lichen and mycorrhizal symbioses are important players of mineral turnover at global scales [26]. Similarly, microcolonial fungi colonizing rock surfaces in arid environments interact with their mineral substrate, influencing its chemical and physical stability [21,45]. Figure 2. Simpliﬁed phylogenetic tree of Fungi showing the ﬁve main phyla currently deﬁned. Foreach phylum, one typical morphological example is shown.Chytridiomycota is a primitive group of mostly unicellular fungi with both parasitic andsaprophytic lifestyles. Zygomycota comprise of many opportunistic fungi, either parasitic orsaprotrophic. Glomeromycota form characteristic associations with plants called endomycorrhizas orarbuscular mycrorhizal fungi (AMF). Over 80% of land plants are involved in a mutualistic associationwith AMF and therefore Glomeromycota represent a phyla of major importance for the functioning ofmost terrestrial ecosystems [41].Ascomycota and Basidiomycota belong to the sub-kingdom Dikarya which represents 98% ofthe fungal diversity described currently [ 42]. Both uni- and multi-cellular forms are observed withinthe Dikarya. Ascomycota represent the largest fraction of fungi described currently with 64% of thedescribed fungal species. They are ubiquitous in the environment and two of their most prominentlifestyles are related to either lichen symbioses or to parasitism of plants and animals. However, theyare also common mycorrhizal fungi, as well as saprotrophs. Additionally, some have developed anextremophilic lifestyle by colonizing rock surfaces in extreme environments (microcolonial fungi [ 21]).Finally, Basidiomycota account for 34% of the total described fungal diversity. They are the commonmushroom forming fungi and are well known as ectomycorrhizal mutualistic symbionts of treesin boreal and temperate forests [ 41]. However, they are also common saprotrophs and parasites ofplants and animals. Ascomycota and Basidiomycota exploit highly varied ecological niches fromorganic rich to very oligotrophic mineral environments and are therefore important players in globalbiogeochemical cycles.3. Importance of Fungi in the Biogeochemical Cycles of ElementsGeomycology, a term coined by Professor Geoffrey M. Gadd and his team, is the ﬁeld thatinvestigates the role of fungi in biogeochemical cycles [ 25,43,44]. Traditionally, fungi have beenconsidered as key players in the global C biogeochemical cycle thanks to their ability to recycleorganic matter, either through saprophytic or parasitic lifestyles. This activity typically leads to therelease of CO 2and major nutrients such as N, P and S (Figure 3; [ 25]). However, fungi also interactwith metals and other inorganic minerals and therefore are also involved in the biogeochemical cyclingof compounds such as Fe, Ca, K, P , Mg, etc. Typically, fungi involved in lichen and mycorrhizalMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 5 of 19symbioses are important players of mineral turnover at global scales [ 26]. Similarly, microcolonialfungi colonizing rock surfaces in arid environments interact with their mineral substrate, inﬂuencingits chemical and physical stability [21,45].Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 5 of 18   Figure 3.  Sketch showing the involvem ent of fungi in global some  biogeochemical cycles; ( a) Fungi contribute substantially to mineral weathering, leading to the release of bioavailable metals or nutrients, which eventually may be uptaken by living organisms or precipitated as secondary minerals; ( b) Fungi as heterotrophs, recycle organic matter (OM). While doing so, they produce metabolites such as organic acids that can also precipitate as secondary minerals (salts). OM recycling eventually releases constitutive  e l e m e n t s  s u c h  a s  C ,  N ,  P  a n d  S ;  ( c) CO 2 produced by heterotrophic fungal respir ation can dissolve into H 2O and depending on the physicochemical conditions precipitate as CaCO 3 leading to the formation of a secondary mineral. The interaction of fungi with metals and minerals can be summed up by two groups of processes leading to either mobilization, or immobilization of metals and minerals in solution [46]. Mobilization involves all the mechanisms leading to the transfer of mine ral constituents into solutions. These processes are crucial, for instance, for nutrient bioavailability in the biosphere but can also lead to the release of toxic compounds in the environment [32,47]. Mobilization of metals and minerals by fungi involves both mechanical and biochemical processes, with the latter considered as being more important in terms of the amounts of released material. Mechanical action of fungi is a result of their ability to grow into cracks, as well as to drill within mineral  substrata [20,48,49]. Biochemical action involves several processes such as chelation, through siderophores and organic acids, redox transformation and methylation processes. Collectively these processes can also be referred to as bioweathering [43]. On the other hand, mechanisms leading to the immobilization of metals and minerals can be described by both active and passive mechanisms. Active mechanisms involve intracellular accumulation and redox transformations, whereas passive mechanisms involve sorption to cell surfaces and exopolymeric substances (EPS) secreted outside cells, as well as formation of insoluble complexes with conjugated bases of organic acids. Immobilization processes can eventually lead to biomineral formation [25,46]. Within the last few decades, numerous studies ha ve been dedicated to th e interaction of fungi with metals and minerals and have shown that fungi are able to resist high concentrations of toxic metals [50,51], are important players in mineral weathering [29,30,48,52,53] and are large producers of secondary mineral compounds, in particular of metal-oxalates [49,54–58] (Figure 3). As a result, f u n g i ,  s i m i l a r l y  t o  p r o k a r y o t e s ,  h a v e  t o  b e  c o n s i d e r e d  a s  m a j o r  p l a y e r s  i n  b i o g e o c h e m i c a l  c y c l e s .  Indeed, in terms of diversity of metabolic processe s associated to elemental cycling, they have a profound influence on biogeochemic al cycles of both organic and in organic components of the Earth system [25,43,49,59].   organic matterCO 2 (& N, P, S)secondary mineralsbioavailable metals/nutrientsuptakeorganic acidsmetal-mineralsOM recyclingCaCO 3Ca2+HCO3-CO32-H+2H+H2CO3 H2OFUNGIweatheringmineralabcFigure 3. Sketch showing the involvement of fungi in global some biogeochemical cycles; ( a) Fungicontribute substantially to mineral weathering, leading to the release of bioavailable metals or nutrients,which eventually may be uptaken by living organisms or precipitated as secondary minerals; ( b) Fungias heterotrophs, recycle organic matter (OM). While doing so, they produce metabolites such asorganic acids that can also precipitate as secondary minerals (salts). OM recycling eventually releasesconstitutive elements such as C, N, P and S; ( c) CO 2produced by heterotrophic fungal respiration candissolve into H 2O and depending on the physicochemical conditions precipitate as CaCO 3leading tothe formation of a secondary mineral.The interaction of fungi with metals and minerals can be summed up by two groups of processesleading to either mobilization, or immobilization of metals and minerals in solution [ 46]. Mobilizationinvolves all the mechanisms leading to the transfer of mineral constituents into solutions. Theseprocesses are crucial, for instance, for nutrient bioavailability in the biosphere but can also lead tothe release of toxic compounds in the environment [ 32,47]. Mobilization of metals and minerals byfungi involves both mechanical and biochemical processes, with the latter considered as being moreimportant in terms of the amounts of released material. Mechanical action of fungi is a result oftheir ability to grow into cracks, as well as to drill within mineral substrata [ 20,48,49]. Biochemicalaction involves several processes such as chelation, through siderophores and organic acids, redoxtransformation and methylation processes. Collectively these processes can also be referred to asbioweathering [43].On the other hand, mechanisms leading to the immobilization of metals and minerals canbe described by both active and passive mechanisms. Active mechanisms involve intracellularaccumulation and redox transformations, whereas passive mechanisms involve sorption to cell surfacesand exopolymeric substances (EPS) secreted outside cells, as well as formation of insoluble complexeswith conjugated bases of organic acids. Immobilization processes can eventually lead to biomineralformation [25,46].Within the last few decades, numerous studies have been dedicated to the interaction of fungiwith metals and minerals and have shown that fungi are able to resist high concentrations of toxicmetals [ 50,51], are important players in mineral weathering [ 29,30,48,52,53] and are large producersMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 6 of 19of secondary mineral compounds, in particular of metal-oxalates [ 49,54–58] (Figure 3). As a result,fungi, similarly to prokaryotes, have to be considered as major players in biogeochemical cycles.Indeed, in terms of diversity of metabolic processes associated to elemental cycling, they have aprofound inﬂuence on biogeochemical cycles of both organic and inorganic components of the Earthsystem [25,43,49,59].4. Fungal BiomineralsWhen considering microbial biomineralization, the majority of studies and literature dealswith prokaryotes. To the contrary, induced microbial biomineralization by eukaryotes is much lessdocumented, particularly when considering the Fungal Kingdom [ 20,43,60,61]. As an example, aquick search in Web of ScienceTMfor fung* AND biomineralization in comparison to bact* ANDbiomineralization retrieves 129 and 1238 hints respectively. As fungi are ubiquitous in both terrestrialand aquatic environments, this conﬂicts with their ecological importance.Fungi are well known to produce large amounts of various organic acids, also called low molecularweight organic acids (LMWOA) [ 20,25]. As reported by Sterﬂinger [ 20], acetic, citric, formic, fumaric,gluconic, glyoxylic and oxalic acids are commonly produced by a wide array of fungi observedin relationship with mineral substrata. Most of these acids are present as their conjugated bases atenvironmental pHs (4 to 9) and are therefore prone to precipitation with different metals depending ontheir corresponding salt solubility product [ 62]. Oxalic acid is one of the most important and ubiquitousorganic acids produced by fungi as it serves several different functions in fungal metabolism. It isinvolved in pathogenicity, competition with other fungi, wood degradation, nutrient release fromminerals and resistance to toxic metals [ 55,63]. Oxalic acid is a strong organic acid (pK a1= 1.23 andpKa2= 4.19) and is mainly present in the environment as the oxalate ion or as an oxalate salt. As aresult of oxalate ubiquity in relationship to fungal metabolism, metal-oxalates are the most commonand widespread biominerals of fungal origin described in present-day literature. Figure 4 depicts sometypical calcium-oxalate crystals associated to fungal hyphae in samples from natural environments.Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 6 of 18  4. Fungal Biominerals When considering microbial biomineralization, the majority of studies and literature deals with prokaryotes. To the contrary, induced microbial biomineralization by eukaryotes is much less documented, particularly when considering the Fungal Kingdom [20,43,60,61]. As an example, a quick search in Web of ScienceTM for fung* AND biomineralization in comparison to bact* AND biomineralization retrieves 129 and 1238 hints re spectively. As fungi are ubiquitous in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, this conflicts with their ecological importance. Fungi are well known to produce large amounts of various organic acids, also called low molecular weight organic acids (LMWOA) [20,25]. As reported by Sterflinger [20], acetic, citric, formic, fumaric, gluconic, glyoxylic and oxalic acids are commonly produced by a wide array of fungi observed in relationship with mineral subs trata. Most of these acids are present as their conjugated bases at environmental pHs (4 to 9)  and are therefore prone to precipitation with different metals depending on their corresponding salt solubility product [62]. Oxalic acid is one of the most important and ubiquitous organic acids produced by fungi as it serves several different functions in fungal metabolism. It is involved in pathogenicity, competition with other fungi, wood degradation, nutrient release from minerals and resistance to toxic metals [55,63]. Oxalic acid is a strong organic acid (pKa1 = 1.23 and pK a2 = 4.19) and is mainly present in the environment as the oxalate ion or as an oxalate salt. As a result of ox alate ubiquity in relationship to fungal metabolism, metal-oxalates are the most common and widespread biominerals of fungal origin described in present-day literature. Figure 4 de picts some typical calcium-oxalate crystals associated to fungal hyphae in samples from natural environments. However, it is expected that fungi might be linked to the formation of other types of biominerals. Indeed, they are ubiquitous in most of the terrestrial environments where both their biomass and surface-to-volume ratio are enormous [19]. Additionally they have the ability to interact with various metals and minerals [25]. Desp ite this fact, their implication in the genesis of other types of minerals remains poorly document ed to this day. A recent study mentions an Ascomycota , Purpureocillium lilacinum , as being involved in the biomineralization of jarosite, a peculiar type of sulphur and iron mineral formed in acidic conditions, through its metabolic  activity [64]. Biomineralization of phosphate minerals as a result of fungal activity has also been documented recently [65–69]. All are typical examples of BIM, confirming the fact that fungi are also important players in microbial biomineralization.  Figure 4.  Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of  fungal hyphae (white arrow) coated with calcium oxalate crystals (probably wheddelite). Both images ( A) and ( B) are from a sample of plant root associated to fungal hyphae (possibly mycorrhizal fungi) in a secondary CaCO 3 deposit of a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil  (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland. Detailed procedure of sample treatment prior to electron microscopy  and operation of SEM can be found in [14].   Figure 4. Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of fungal hyphae (white arrow) coated withcalcium oxalate crystals (probably wheddelite). Both images ( A) and ( B) are from a sample of plantroot associated to fungal hyphae (possibly mycorrhizal fungi) in a secondary CaCO 3deposit of a calcicCambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland. Detailed procedure of sampletreatment prior to electron microscopy and operation of SEM can be found in [14].However, it is expected that fungi might be linked to the formation of other types ofbiominerals. Indeed, they are ubiquitous in most of the terrestrial environments where both theirbiomass and surface-to-volume ratio are enormous [ 19]. Additionally they have the ability tointeract with various metals and minerals [ 25]. Despite this fact, their implication in the genesisof other types of minerals remains poorly documented to this day. A recent study mentions anMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 7 of 19Ascomycota, Purpureocillium lilacinum , as being involved in the biomineralization of jarosite, apeculiar type of sulphur and iron mineral formed in acidic conditions, through its metabolicactivity [ 64]. Biomineralization of phosphate minerals as a result of fungal activity has also beendocumented recently [ 65–69]. All are typical examples of BIM, conﬁrming the fact that fungi are alsoimportant players in microbial biomineralization.5. Fungi and CaCO 3Fungi are involved in both CaCO 3bioweathering and biomineralization [ 20,48,52,70–72]. Thesetwo activities are actually strongly related, since products released as a result of CaCO 3dissolutioncan further re-precipitate as CaCO 3depending on physicochemical conditions [ 71]. Whether CaCO 3isstable or not in a given solution depends mainly on factors such as temperature, pH, pCO 2and/orcarbonate alkalinity. Carbonate alkalinity is controlled mainly by the pH, which will deﬁne the amountof the various carbonate species present in a solution (CO 2gas, H 2CO 3, HCO 32and CO 32). As aresult, in order to precipitate CaCO 3two factors are critical: carbonate alkalinity and calcium (Ca2+)concentration [2,73].Fungal metabolism can inﬂuence both carbonate alkalinity and Ca2+concentrations. Typicalfungal activities that can decrease alkalinity are heterotrophic respiration leading to an increase inpCO 2, production of organic acids and excretion of H+during fungal thigmotropism [ 74]. In contrast,typical fungal activities that can increase carbonate alkalinity are water consumption (e.g., throughtranslocation within the fungal network), physicochemical degassing of fungal respired CO 2, organicacid oxidation [75,76], urea mineralization [77,78] and nitrate assimilation [79].In addition to their inﬂuence on carbonate alkalinity, fungi can also inﬂuence Ca2+concentrations,either directly or indirectly. Ca2+is important for the apical growth of fungal hyphae as it should behighly concentrated at the apex for proper apical growth. Consequently, Ca2+concentration withinmetabolically active fungal cells is under strict control: Ca2+must be concentrated at the apex andinstantly decreased in subapical regions [ 80]. Average concentrations of free cytoplasmic Ca2+rangefrom 100 to 350 nM, whereas at the tip, concentrations up to 2600 nM are observed. In order to keepthis steep gradient, fungi have to efﬁciently regulate Ca2+. Ca2+can enter the cytoplasm both activelyand passively, so Ca2+concentration in the cytoplasm is maintained at low levels by actively pumpingit either out of the cell, or by sequestration in organelles (mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, andvacuoles), or by binding it onto cytoplasmic proteins (calmodulins) and within the cell wall [ 50,80,81].Besides fungal metabolic activities that can inﬂuence alkalinity and Ca2+concentrations potentiallyleading to induced CaCO 3biomineralization, fungi can also participate through organomineralization.Fungal cell walls, as well as secreted EPS, can adsorb various metals such as Ca2+. In environmentswith high metal concentrations, it represents a ﬁrst rampart of passive metal immobilization [ 50].Interestingly, among fungal cell wall polymers, chitin is known for its ability to bind Ca2+[82]. Cellwall glycoproteins with available acidic groups may display a similar binding capacity [ 50]. In fact,overconcentration of Ca2+on an organic matrix is a ﬁrst prerequisite for CaCO 3nucleation andsubsequent organomineralization [ 2]. Consequently, there are several factors in relationship to fungithat can directly or indirectly inﬂuence CaCO 3stability.Fungi growing in Ca-rich environments are exposed to high concentrations of Ca2+and CO 32insolution. These conditions likely represent a source of stress due to subsequent osmotic pressure andCa2+cytotoxicity. The formation of Ca-oxalates has been suggested as a means to immobilize excessiveCa2+[54,55,83]. Precipitation of CaCO 3by fungi may represent a similar passive mechanism leading toa decrease of their internal Ca2+content. This process is documented for bacteria [ 84–86], but remainsa hypothesis regarding fungi. Similarly to osmotic pressure generated by Ca2+, excessive alkalinity canalso represent a stress for fungal cells and precipitating metal-CO 3, such as CaCO 3, could represent amean of intracellular protection (Figure 5).Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 8 of 19Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 8 of 18   Figure 5.  Processes potentially leading to fungal CaCO 3 biomineralization at the fungal microenvironment scale. These proce sses are mainly linked to both Ca2+ sequestration and metabolic control of carbonate alkalinity within cell co mpartments (cell wall (cw), cytoplasm (cy), and organelles) of fluids transl ocated inside the hypha. ( i) Carbonate alkalinity levels in the fungal microenvironment influence Ca2+ and CO 32− bioavailability; ( ii) Ca2+ sequestration rate by fungi in the different cellular compartments influences Ca2+ bioavailability. Ca2+ can be present within the cell-wall (Ca2+-cw) as free cytoplasmic Ca2+ bounded to proteins (Ca2+-B) or stored in organelles. Finally, fungi may exert a metabolic control on intra-hyphal alkalinity levels (represented as CO 32−), through pH regulation for instance (e.g., H+ excretion). 5.1. Fungal CaCO 3 Produced in the Laboratory CaCO 3 biominerals are regularly mentioned in typi cal fungal environments and as a result, a fungal implication in their genesis has of ten been suggested [43,48,70,71,87–92]. CaCO 3 is a ubiquitous component in the environment and is  the most common biomineral [16]. Up until recently, it was considered that mostly bacteria and microscopic algae were involved in its biomineralization at a microbial level [61,71]. However, within the last decade, several studies have started to unravel some of the specific mechanisms leading to fungal CaCO 3 biomineralization. Li et al.  [78,93] demonstrated that urease-positive fungi similarly to ureolytic bacteria, can induce CaCO 3 biomineralization. In particular, in one of their studies [93], they isolated fungi from calcareous soils, showing that in these environm ents ureolytic fungi are indeed present and may contribute to CaCO 3 formation/stability. This is again a typical example of BIM since the main consequence of urea transformation  into ammonium is a pH increase, one of the critical factors for CaCO 3 precipitation. In another study linked to nitrogen metabolism, Hou  et al.  [79] noted the precipitation of CaCO 3 by Alternaria  sp. as a consequence of nitrate removal fr om the medium. Nitrate uptake correlated with an increase in pH, leading to CaCO 3 precipitation. Interestingly, they also mentioned that nucleation seems to occur around silica particles and that the initial stage of biomineralization involves an amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) in termediate. This latter fact has already been discussed as a possible intermediate, yet rarely identified in experimental procedures for biominerals by several authors [94–96]. Rautaray  et al.  [97,98], Ahmad  et al.  [99] and Sanyal  et al.  [100] performed similar studies in which they demonstrated that fungal bioma ss exposed to significant concentration of Ca2+ (as CaCl 2) leads to CaCO 3 biomineralization. They observed very distinct morphologies of crystals depending on the fungal species involved and proposed that  specific proteins were responsible for this. Moreover, this effect was also reproduced only fr om cultures filtrates, meaning that some soluble Figure 5. Processes potentially leading to fungal CaCO 3biomineralization at the fungal microenvironmentscale. These processes are mainly linked to both Ca2+sequestration and metabolic control of carbonatealkalinity within cell compartments (cell wall (cw), cytoplasm (cy), and organelles) of ﬂuids translocatedinside the hypha. ( i) Carbonate alkalinity levels in the fungal microenvironment inﬂuence Ca2+andCO 32bioavailability; ( ii) Ca2+sequestration rate by fungi in the different cellular compartmentsinﬂuences Ca2+bioavailability. Ca2+can be present within the cell-wall (Ca2+-cw) as free cytoplasmicCa2+bounded to proteins (Ca2+-B) or stored in organelles. Finally, fungi may exert a metaboliccontrol on intra-hyphal alkalinity levels (represented as CO 32), through pH regulation for instance(e.g., H+excretion).5.1. Fungal CaCO 3Produced in the LaboratoryCaCO 3biominerals are regularly mentioned in typical fungal environments and as a result, afungal implication in their genesis has often been suggested [ 43,48,70,71,87–92]. CaCO 3is a ubiquitouscomponent in the environment and is the most common biomineral [ 16]. Up until recently, it wasconsidered that mostly bacteria and microscopic algae were involved in its biomineralization at amicrobial level [ 61,71]. However, within the last decade, several studies have started to unravel someof the speciﬁc mechanisms leading to fungal CaCO 3biomineralization.Liet al. [78,93] demonstrated that urease-positive fungi similarly to ureolytic bacteria, can induceCaCO 3biomineralization. In particular, in one of their studies [ 93], they isolated fungi from calcareoussoils, showing that in these environments ureolytic fungi are indeed present and may contribute toCaCO 3formation/stability. This is again a typical example of BIM since the main consequence of ureatransformation into ammonium is a pH increase, one of the critical factors for CaCO 3precipitation.In another study linked to nitrogen metabolism, Hou et al. [79] noted the precipitation of CaCO 3byAlternaria sp. as a consequence of nitrate removal from the medium. Nitrate uptake correlated withan increase in pH, leading to CaCO 3precipitation. Interestingly, they also mentioned that nucleationseems to occur around silica particles and that the initial stage of biomineralization involves anamorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) intermediate. This latter fact has already been discussed as apossible intermediate, yet rarely identiﬁed in experimental procedures for biominerals by severalauthors [94–96].Rautaray et al. [97,98], Ahmad et al. [99] and Sanyal et al. [100] performed similar studies in whichthey demonstrated that fungal biomass exposed to signiﬁcant concentration of Ca2+(as CaCl 2) leadsMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 9 of 19to CaCO 3biomineralization. They observed very distinct morphologies of crystals depending on thefungal species involved and proposed that speciﬁc proteins were responsible for this. Moreover, thiseffect was also reproduced only from cultures ﬁltrates, meaning that some soluble compounds werelinked to this process. As a result, this is an example of both BIM and organomineralization.Other authors performed experiments in less controlled conditions, i.e., in microcosms leading tothe production of CaCO 3phases as a consequence of the presence of fungi. Burford et al. [71] grewSerpula himantioides (a brown rot Basidiomycota) and Cephalotrichum sp. (previously isolated from alimestone sample) on limestone powders with no organic C source. They observed extensive crystalproduction of both calcium oxalate and CaCO 3, the ratio between the two chemical components beinga consequence of the fungal species. Crystal production was observed with both dead and live biomass,with a more prominent effect using live biomass. This again points to the fact that both BIM andorganomineralization processes are also related to fungal presence and activity.In another microcosm study, Masaphy et al. [101] could demonstrate the production of CaCO 3as a result of the presence of Morchella sp. They observed calciﬁcation of quartz sands as wellas coating of hyphae with nanostructures identiﬁed as CaCO 3. They proposed that water uptakeby the mycelium, evaporation and degassing of respired CO 2are responsible for adjusting thephysicochemical conditions in favour of CaCO 3precipitation. This process corresponds to BIM. Inaddition, they observed fungal hyphae within cavities with CaCO 3precipitated at some distance. Theyproposed that LMWOA excreted by fungal hyphae led to dissolution of CaCO 3which will furtherre-precipitate in favourable physicochemical conditions. This is in agreement with the mechanismalready discussed by Verrecchia et al. [102], Burford et al. [43], Kolo et al. [48], as well as Fomina et al. [49](rock-building hypothesis ).As a conclusion, all these examples point to the fact that fungi are responsible, similarly to bacteria,for a fraction of the CaCO 3biomineralization observed in the natural environment. Moreover, they arecapable of both induced biomineralization and organomineralization processes.5.2. Fungal CaCO 3in the Natural EnvironmentThere are many records of suspected fungal involvement in the production of secondary CaCO 3in the natural environment [ 43,48,70,71,87–92]. Owing to the knowledge gathered from laboratoryexperiments performed during the last ten years, it is now possible to support observations madeby early authors. Indeed, results of some typical heterotrophic activity performed by fungi enhancesaturation in CaCO 3, e.g., (1) conversion of urea into ammonium [ 78,93]; (2) uptake of nitrate [ 79];(3) degassing of respired CO 2; (4) water translocation [ 101]. All these examples are typical of BIM.In addition to this, Bindschedler et al. [14] demonstrated that fungi can be a source of organic substratesthat are likely to act as template for organomineralization in environments supersaturated in CaCO 3.Currently, no in situ studies exist to actually demonstrate the role of fungi in CaCO 3precipitationdirectly in the natural environment. Consequently, only a suspected link can be drawn. In order todiscuss this aspect, we choose to present our own experience with a typical example of secondaryCaCO 3crystals attributed to fungal activity but still under debate! These minerals are known as needleﬁbre calcite (NFC) and their associated nanoﬁbres ([ 103] and references therein; [ 14] and referencesfrom their Table 1; [ 90–92,104,105]). Both features are distinct micro- to nano-crystalline shapes ofcalcite crystals [ 14] (Figure 6). Discussions among the scientiﬁc community attribute the origin of thesefeatures either to physicochemical [106–108] or biogenic [90,103,104,109–112] processes.However, a fungal origin can be further supported based on what is presently known about theinvolvement of fungi in CaCO 3biomineralization. Indeed, both NFC and nanoﬁbres are observedonly in vadose calcareous environments. Both Li et al. [78] and Burford et al. [71] demonstratedthat calcareous environments are efﬁcient sources of calcifying fungi. Morever, as discussed inCastanier et al. [73], the heterotrophic pathway of CaCO 3precipitation presented for bacteria is alsovalid for fungi. As a result, fungi have the ability to induce the physicochemical conditions leading tocarbonate supersaturation.Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 10 of 19Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 10 of 18  within hyphal walls as well as in intrahyphal incl usions (Figure 7; for details of sampling site and experimental procedures, see reference [92]). These results stress that two factors critical for CaCO 3 precipitation in calcareous environment can be triggered by fungi: (1) carbonate alkalinity and (2) concentration of Ca2+ on an organic matrix. However,  in situ  studies actually linking CaCO 3 biominerals and fungal activity are still lacking. This is mainly due to the access to advanced analytical technologies having only become available within the last decade.  Figure 6.  Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of natural samples of secondary CaCO 3 deposit composed of needle fibre calcite (NFC; wh ite arrows) and nanofibres (black stars) from a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil  (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Sw itzerland. Both images ( A) and ( B) are from a fungal rhizomorph (fu ngal hyphae are shown in A by a black arrow) associated to a limestone fragment from deep mineral layers of a soil covered with secondary CaCO 3 deposits.  Figure 7.  Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) im ages of fungal rhizom orphs and associated EDS spectra. Analysed zones are indicated with a st ar. Cu is from the TEM grid. Fungal rhizomorphs sampled in a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil  (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland at the interface between the B and C horizons, showing the presence of calcium in both their cell wall (left-hand side) and in intrahyphal inclusions (right-h and side). Os peak indicates that inclusions also contain organic material (see  [91] for further details). 6. Methodological Issues in the Study of Fungal Biominerals from Natural Environments An approach to associate an organism to a mineral in order to demonstrate a causal link, is to look for biomarkers. A biomarker represents a measurable form of a given biological state. Figure 6. Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of natural samples of secondary CaCO 3depositcomposed of needle ﬁbre calcite (NFC; white arrows) and nanoﬁbres (black stars) from a calcic Cambisolhumic calcaric skeletic soil (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland. Both images ( A) and ( B) are from a fungalrhizomorph (fungal hyphae are shown in A by a black arrow) associated to a limestone fragment fromdeep mineral layers of a soil covered with secondary CaCO 3deposits.In addition, they also act on the Ca2+component of the system. Energy Dispersive Spectroscopy(EDS) measurements under a Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM) of ultrathin sections of fungalrhizomorphs sampled in calcareous environments highlighted high concentrations of Ca within hyphalwalls as well as in intrahyphal inclusions (Figure 7; for details of sampling site and experimentalprocedures, see reference [92]).Minerals 2016 , 6, 41 10 of 18  within hyphal walls as well as in intrahyphal incl usions (Figure 7; for details of sampling site and experimental procedures, see reference [92]). These results stress that two factors critical for CaCO 3 precipitation in calcareous environment can be triggered by fungi: (1) carbonate alkalinity and (2) concentration of Ca2+ on an organic matrix. However,  in situ  studies actually linking CaCO 3 biominerals and fungal activity are still lacking. This is mainly due to the access to advanced analytical technologies having only become available within the last decade.  Figure 6.  Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images of natural samples of secondary CaCO 3 deposit composed of needle fibre calcite (NFC; wh ite arrows) and nanofibres (black stars) from a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil  (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Sw itzerland. Both images ( A) and ( B) are from a fungal rhizomorph (fu ngal hyphae are shown in A by a black arrow) associated to a limestone fragment from deep mineral layers of a soil covered with secondary CaCO 3 deposits.  Figure 7.  Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) im ages of fungal rhizom orphs and associated EDS spectra. Analysed zones are indicated with a st ar. Cu is from the TEM grid. Fungal rhizomorphs sampled in a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil  (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland at the interface between the B and C horizons, showing the presence of calcium in both their cell wall (left-hand side) and in intrahyphal inclusions (right-h and side). Os peak indicates that inclusions also contain organic material (see  [91] for further details). 6. Methodological Issues in the Study of Fungal Biominerals from Natural Environments An approach to associate an organism to a mineral in order to demonstrate a causal link, is to look for biomarkers. A biomarker represents a measurable form of a given biological state. Figure 7. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of fungal rhizomorphs and associated EDSspectra. Analysed zones are indicated with a star. Cu is from the TEM grid. Fungal rhizomorphssampled in a calcic Cambisol humic calcaric skeletic soil (WRB 2006) in Villiers, Switzerland at the interfacebetween the B and C horizons, showing the presence of calcium in both their cell wall (left-hand side)and in intrahyphal inclusions (right-hand side). Os peak indicates that inclusions also contain organicmaterial (see [91] for further details).These results stress that two factors critical for CaCO 3precipitation in calcareous environmentcan be triggered by fungi: (1) carbonate alkalinity and (2) concentration of Ca2+on an organic matrix.However, in situ studies actually linking CaCO 3biominerals and fungal activity are still lacking. ThisMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 11 of 19is mainly due to the access to advanced analytical technologies having only become available withinthe last decade.6. Methodological Issues in the Study of Fungal Biominerals from Natural EnvironmentsAn approach to associate an organism to a mineral in order to demonstrate a causal link, is to lookfor biomarkers. A biomarker represents a measurable form of a given biological state. Depending ofthe research ﬁeld using this term, it can be an organic or an inorganic chemical compound, an isotopicsignature or even a morphological characteristic [ 113]. Indicators based on organic compounds arefrequently used as tracers in geological and environmental processes [ 114]. Therefore, the search fororganic molecules in mineral matter might be a way of emphasizing a biotic origin of a particularmineral. In the following section, we propose to use the terms “organic signature” or “organicbiomarker” to illustrate this.There are two ways in which an organic molecule may be trapped within the crystal lattice.First, the nucleation and/or the crystal growth are controlled by an organic matrix, which is thensubsequently trapped in the crystal lattice [ 115]. Second, organic matter present in the environment ispassively trapped between crystal planes of polycrystalline phases [ 116]. Therefore, this latter processhas no inﬂuence on crystallogenesis sensu stricto . However, it may still be used as an environmental orbiogeochemical proxy.Retrieving an organic signature from environmental samples may be achieved in several manners.The analysis may be performed on a bulk sample by an “extraction-analysis” approach which isthen most likely a mixture of several phases, as experienced in our own observations with NFCand nanoﬁbres [ 91,105]. By this method, the presence of a given organic biomarker may indicatethe presence of an organism or a metabolism (depending on the nature of the biomarker) but itdoes not necessarily indicate an implication of the targeted organism in the crystal genesis [ 117–119].Alternatively, targeting the inside of the crystal lattice using ﬁne microanalytical tools may be carriedout. Yet this approach implies a critical size for the single crystal in order to be able to focus theanalysis [120].The “extraction-analysis” approach usually leads to poor results. Often no organic signatures aredetected, a result which is related to either detection limits, which are frequently above biomarkercompound concentrations within the object investigated, or the simple absence of the consideredbiomarker. However, such results tend to remain unpublished (personal observation by the authors).In contrast, if organic biomarkers are detected and identiﬁed, their causal link to a givenbiomineral remains dubious [ 117–119]. Consequently, using a ﬁne-scale analytical approach isnecessary because of the low speciﬁcity and/or poor resolution of broad-spectrum methods [120–122] .Indeed, the study of organic molecules possibly trapped into the crystal lattice of sub-micrometricobjects such as biominerals, require methods capable of very high spatial and chemicalresolutions [123].Many biominerals exhibit submicron sizes, which are often very near or under the resolutionlimits of most of the methods currently available in the ﬁeld of in situ microscopy and microanalysis.The use of Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and TEM coupled to EDS analyses has led to majoradvances in the ﬁeld of biomineralization. However, it does not allow for the direct discrimination oforganic vs.mineral matter, nor does it permit molecular characterization of the objects observed sinceEDS only analyses elemental composition.Electron Energy Loss Spectroscopy (EELS) and Electron Spectroscopic Imaging (ESI) coupledto the TEM are very powerful microanalysis tools, as together they enable element and high spatialresolutions. The latter conﬁguration corresponds well to the sizes of the objects to be analysed but amajor problem subsists because of the high heterogeneity of natural samples. As a result, spectrogramsobtained with such samples are almost impossible to interpret, as too many peaks are present. Thisproblem was not encountered in lab experiments, as shown in a study by Cailleau et al. [104]. Therefore,it appears that this method is not adapted to the investigation of natural samples.Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 12 of 19An accurate examination of the chemistry of biominerals at submicrometric scales requires amicroanalytical tool of very high spatial and spectral resolution that is also able to focus on oneelement at a time, such as Scanning Transmission X-ray Microscopy (STXM). Looking at an object beinganalysed through X-ray images is a critical approach in biomineralization. The use of NEXAFS (Nearedge X-ray absorption ﬁne structure) spectrometry allows for very high mass resolution appropriatefor detecting light elements such as C, N, O and Ca which are constitutive elements of fungal CaCO 3biominerals. Moreover, analysis with ﬁne X-ray sources provide the opportunity to retrieve informationregarding bond types between elements and is therefore the tool of choice when studying organicmaterials. Indeed, organic materials are usually often composed of the same major elements (C, H,O, N) but the difference lies on the bond types between these elements. A ﬁnal advantage of thismethod is the possibility of analysing hydrated environmental samples [ 120]. By this means, it ispossible to avoid the complex preparation of samples prior to observation, which can potentially createartefacts to the sample. Indeed, one major problem that remains in conventional electron microscopystudies with these kinds of samples, especially when containing a large fraction of biological material,is that they have to be ﬁxed and dehydrated using chemical and/or physical methods. Each of thesetreatment steps can modify the structure of a sample, as well as the relationships between the differentelements within a sample [ 124]. This fact has been suggested as an explanation for the observation ofenigmatic or unidentiﬁed features in some studies [117,125].To sum up, all the characteristics mentioned above make STXM a tool of very high analyticresolution, able to retrieve nanometer scale chemical information under in situ environmentalconditions [ 120]. And as a matter of fact, STXM has proven to be an appropriate tool to study thebiogenecity of some minerals [53,126–129].NanoSIMS (Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry) can also be a valuable option for investigatingfungal biominerals as it also exhibits very high lateral (around 50 nm [ 130]) and mass resolutions.However, nanoSIMS does not have the capability of analysing bond types, which is criticalwhen studying organic materials as explained above. Fine elemental mapping as well as isotopicdiscrimination are possible [ 130], which could lead to the recovery of either an isotopic or elementalpattern in biominerals, which may help to discuss their origin [131].Finally, another approach often used in the ﬁeld of geomycology are DNA-based methods (DNAextraction, PCR and sequencing). While crucial advances have been made in the last ten years, inparticular regarding sequencing methods, fungal community ecology still lags behind prokaryoticcommunity ecology. The term microbial has often been (and is still sometimes) used for studies onlydescribing bacteria [ 60,132]. Additionally, besides exhibiting very diverse life forms, fungi spreadacross three ecological categories: saprophytes, mycorrhizae and pathogens/parasites, which havebeen targeted individually by researchers [ 133,134]. However, recent research clearly demonstratesthat all three categories matter for soil functioning [ 133]. Therefore, a global overview of fungalcommunity ecology (the different fungi present in an environment and the ecological functionsthey fulﬁl) requires the use of advanced molecular methods, which are currently being developed.Consequently, the poor results usually obtained with DNA-based approaches in the ﬁeld of fungalbiomineralization [ 135] are more likely due to poor primer speciﬁcity and under-representation offungal sequences in databases [ 136–138], as well as peculiarities of fungal biology [ 134] in comparisonto prokaryotes, rather than a lack of fungal involvement.7. ConclusionsMicrobial biomineralization is a rapidly expanding ﬁeld, mainly due to the fast development ofnew methods to qualitatively and quantitatively analyse interactions at the scale of microbes. However,while microbe is a term that deﬁnes a wide range of organisms (from prokaryotes to eukaryotes),studies dealing with microbial biomineralization are still biased towards prokaryotes. This is probablythe result of traditional microbial ecology that ﬁrst developed in the ﬁeld of bacteriology, as well asthe difﬁculty in studying complex organisms such as fungi that usually exhibit very heterogeneousMinerals 2016 ,6, 41 13 of 19morphologies and metabolic activities in space and time. Bacteria are usually single-celled organismswhose morphology and related metabolic activity are much easier to deﬁne and to study accurately inlaboratory conditions. In addition, fungi have long been investigated regarding their importance inorganic matter degradation, either through saprotrophy or parasitic/pathogenic interactions. Due tothis, their link to inorganic constituents was considered as being restricted to mineral nutrition throughmycorrhizal symbiosis, mineral weathering of lichens as well as production of mycogenic oxalates.Presently this view appears as being rather minimalistic, since recent studies in the ﬁeld of geomycologyhave demonstrated that fungi are widely present and active in relationship to mineral substrata ona global scale. They are, similarly to bacteria, major players in the mobilization and immobilizationof various mineral and metal compounds. In particular, considering the immobilization of mineralcompounds, their action goes far beyond producing oxalate minerals. Fungi have an important role inmicrobial CaCO 3biomineralization and participate to both biologically induced biomineralizationand organomineralization processes. Several examples of induced biomineralization through fungalmetabolic activity ( i.e., through heterotrophic pathways) have been documented. The relationship offungi to CaCO 3organomineralization is also mentioned regularly, however the exact mechanisms stillremain to be more thoroughly assessed. Therefore, in order to adequately quantify the importance ofmicrobes in CaCO 3biomineralization, the most common biomineral encountered in the biosphere,further efforts should be made to highlight the diversity of fungal processes, as well as their importancein global biogeochemical of both the C and Ca cycles. In addition, it also emphasizes their possiblerole in the biomineralization of other type of mineral of ecological importance such as phosphateand oxides.Acknowledgments: The authors would like to thank the Subsidy tremplin at Unine for ﬁnancial support. Some ofthe work presented was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation, Grant Nos. FN 646 205320-109497/1and FN 205320-122171.Author Contributions: Saskia Bindschedler wrote the manuscript and performed the electron microscopy imagesand in-situ analyses shown in Figures 4, 6 and 7. Guillaume Cailleau and Eric Verrecchia assisted in preparingthe manuscript.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Weiner, S.; Dove, P .M. An overview of biomineralization processes and the problem of the vital effect.InBiomineralization ; Dove, P .M., de Yoreo, J.J., Weiner, S., Eds.; Mineralogical Society of America: Chantilly,VA, USA, 2003; Volume 54, pp. 1–29.2. Dupraz, C.; Reid, R.P .; Braissant, O.; Decho, A.W.; Norman, R.S.; Visscher, P .T. Processes of carbonateprecipitation in modern microbial mats. Earth Sci. Rev. 2009 ,96, 141–162.3. Défarge, C. Organomineralization. In Encyclopedia of Geobiology ; Reitner, J., Thiel, V ., Eds.; Springer: Dodrecht,The Netherlands, 2011; pp. 697–701.4. Trichet, J.; Défarge, C. Non-biologically supported organomineralization. Bull. Inst. Océanogr. MonacoNuméro Spec. 1995 ,14, 203–236.5. Madigan, M.T.; Martinko, J.M.; Bender, K.S.; Buckley, D.H.; Stahl, D.H. Brock Biology of Microorganisms ,14th ed.; Pearson Education, Inc.: Boston, MA, USA, 2015.6. Mann, S. Biomineralization: Principles and Concepts in Bioinorganic Materials Chemistry ; Oxford UniversityPress, Inc.: New York, NY, USA, 2001.7. Bazylinski, D.A.; Frankel, R.B. Biologically controlled mineralization in prokaryotes. Rev. Mineral. Geochem.2003 ,54, 217–247.8. Badger, M.R.; Price, G.D. The role of carbonic-anhydrase in photosynthesis. Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. PlantMol. Biol. 1994 ,45, 369–392. [CrossRef]9. Castanier, S.; le Metayer-Levrel, G.; Perthuisot, J.-P . Bacterial roles in the precipitation of carbonate minerals.InMicrobial Sediments ; Riding, R.E., Awramik, S.M., Eds.; Springer-Verlag: Berlin, Germany; Heidelberg,Germany, 2000; pp. 32–39.Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 14 of 1910. Braissant, O.; Cailleau, G.; Aragno, M.; Verrecchia, E.P . Biologically induced mineralization in the treeMilicia excelsa (Moraceae): Its causes and consequences to the environment. Geobiology 2004 ,2, 59–66.11. Visscher, P .T.; Stolz, J.F. Microbial mats as bioreactors: Populations, processes, and products. Palaeogeogr.Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol. 2005 ,219, 87–100.12. Dupraz, C.; Visscher, P .T. Microbial lithiﬁcation in marine stromatolites and hypersaline mats.Trends Microbiol. 2005 ,13, 429–438.13. Benzerara, K.; Morin, G.; Yoon, T.H.; Miot, J.; Tyliszczak, T.; Casiot, C.; Bruneel, O.; Farges, F.; Brown, G.E.Nanoscale study of As biomineralization in an acid mine drainage system. Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta 2008 ,72, 3949–3963. [CrossRef]14. Bindschedler, S.; Cailleau, G.; Braissant, O.; Millière, L.; Job, D.; Verrecchia, E.P . Unravelling the enigmaticorigin of calcitic nanoﬁbres in soils and caves: Purely physicochemical or biogenic processes? Biogeosciences2014 ,11, 2809–2825. [CrossRef]15. Lowenstam, H.A.; Weiner, S. On Biomineralization ; Oxford University Press, Inc.: New York, NY, USA, 1989.16. Ehrlich, H.I. Geomicrobiology , 4th ed.; CRC Press: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2002.17. Skinner, H.C.W. Biominerals. Mineral. Mag. 2005 ,69, 621–641. [CrossRef]18. Mann, S. The chemistry of form. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2000 ,39, 3393–3406. [CrossRef]19. Ritz, K.; Young, I.M. Interactions between soil structure and fungi. Mycologist 2004 ,18, 52–59. [CrossRef]20. Sterﬂinger, K. Fungi as geologic agents. Geomicrobiol. J. 2000 ,17, 97–124. [CrossRef]21. Gorbushina, A.A. Life on the rocks. Environ. Microbiol. 2007 ,9, 1613–1631. [CrossRef] [PubMed]22. Vanderwolf, K.J.; Malloch, D.; McAlpine, D.F.; Forbes, G.J. A world review of fungi, yeasts, and slime moldsin caves. Int. J. Speleol. 2013 ,42, 77–96. [CrossRef]23. Shearer, C.A.; Descals, E.; Kohlmeyer, B.; Kohlmeyer, J.; Marvanovà, L.; Padgett, D.; Porter, D.; Raja, H.A.;Schmit, J.P .; Thorton, H.A. Fungal biodiversity in aquatic habitats. Biodivers. Conserv. 2007 ,16, 49–67.[CrossRef]24. Nagahama, T.; Nagano, Y. Cultured and uncultured fungal diversity in deep-sea environments. In Biology ofMarine Fungi ; Springer-Verlag: Berlin, Germany; Heidelberg, Germany, 2012; pp. 173–187.25. Gadd, G.M. Geomycology: Biogeochemical transformations of rocks, minerals, metals and radionuclides byfungi, bioweathering and bioremediation. Mycol. Res. 2007 ,111, 3–49. [CrossRef] [PubMed]26. Moore, D.; Robson, G.D.; Trinci, A.P .J. 21st Century Guidebook to Fungi ; Cambridge University Press: New York,NY, USA, 2011.27. Deacon, J.W. Fungal Biology ; Blackwell Publishing Ltd: Malden, MA, USA, 2007.28. Klein, D.A.; Paschke, M.W. Filamentous fungi: The indeterminate lifestyle and microbial ecology. Microb. Ecol.2004 ,47, 224–235. [CrossRef] [PubMed]29. Jongmans, A.G.; van Breemen, N.; Lundstrom, U.; van Hees, P .A.W.; Finlay, R.D.; Srinivasan, M.; Unestam, T.;Giesler, R.; Melkerud, P .A.; Olsson, M. Rock-eating fungi. Nature 1997 ,389, 682–683. [CrossRef]30. Van Schöll, L.; Kuyper, T.W.; Smits, M.M.; Landeweert, R.; Hofﬂand, E.; van Breemen, N. Rock-eatingmycorrhizas: Their role in plant nutrition and biogeochemical cycles. Plant Soil 2008 ,303, 35–47. [CrossRef]31. Boswell, G.P .; Jacobs, H.; Ritz, K.; Gadd, G.M.; Davidson, F.A. The development of fungal networks incomplex environments. Bull. Math. Biol. 2007 ,69, 605–634. [CrossRef] [PubMed]32. Paul, E.A. Soil Microbiology, Ecology and Biochemistry ; Academic Press: San Diego, CA, USA, 2007; p. 532.33. Jones, P .C.T.; Mollison, J.E.; Quenouille, M.H. A technique for the quantitative estimation of soilmicro-organisms. Microbiology 1948 ,2, 54–69.34. Ritz, K. Growth responses of some soil fungi to spatially heterogeneous nutrients. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol.1995 ,16, 269–279. [CrossRef]35. Wright, D.P .; Johansson, T.; Le Quéré, A.; Söderström, B.; Tunlid, A. Spatial patterns of gene expression in theextramatrical mycelium and mycorrhizal root tips formed by the ectomycorrhizal fungus Paxillus involutusin association with birch ( Betula pendula ) seedlings in soil microcosms. New Phytol. 2005 ,167, 579–596.[CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Olsson, S. Mycelial density proﬁles of fungi on heterogeneous media and their interpretation in terms ofnutrient reallocation patterns. Mycol. Res. 1995 ,99, 143–153. [CrossRef]37. Harms, H.; Schlosser, D.; Wick, L.Y. Untapped potential: Exploiting fungi in bioremediation of hazardouschemicals. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2011 ,9, 177–192. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 15 of 1938. Fröhlich-Nowoisky, J.; Burrows, S.; Xie, Z.; Engling, G.; Solomon, P .; Fraser, M.; Mayol-Bracero, O.; Artaxo, P .;Begerow, D.; Conrad, R. Biogeography in the air: Fungal diversity over land and oceans. Biogeosciences 2012 ,9, 1125–1136. [CrossRef]39. Womack, A.M.; Artaxo, P .E.; Ishida, F.Y.; Mueller, R.C.; Saleska, S.R.; Wiedemann, K.T.; Bohannan, B.J.M.;Green, J.L. Characterization of active and total fungal communities in the atmosphere over the Amazonrainforest. Biogeosciences 2015 ,12, 6337–6349. [CrossRef]40. Hibbett, D.S.; Binder, M.; Bischoff, J.F.; Blackwell, M.; Cannon, P .F.; Eriksson, O.E.; Huhndorf, S.; James, T.;Kirk, P .M.; Lücking, R. A higher-level phylogenetic classiﬁcation of the Fungi. Mycol. Res. 2007 ,111, 509–547.[CrossRef] [PubMed]41. Smith, S.E.; Read, D.J. Mycorrhizal Symbiosis ; Academic Press: New York, NY, USA, 2008.42. Stajich, J.E.; Berbee, M.L.; Blackwell, M.; Hibbett, D.S.; James, T.Y.; Spatafora, J.W.; Taylor, J.W. The fungi.Curr. Biol. 2009 ,19, R840–R845. [CrossRef] [PubMed]43. Burford, E.P .; Fomina, M.; Gadd, G.M. Fungal involvement in bioweathering and biotransformation of rocksand minerals. Mineral. Mag. 2003 ,67, 1127–1155. [CrossRef]44. Gadd, G.M.; Fomina, M.; Burford, E.P . Fungal roles and function in rock, mineral and soiltransformations. In Microorganisms and Earth Systems—Advances in Geomicrobiology ; Gadd, G.M., Semple, K.T.,Lappin-Scott, H.M., Eds.; Cambridge University Press: New York, NY, USA, 2005; pp. 201–231.45. Parchert, K.J.; Spilde, M.N.; Porras-Alfaro, A.; Nyberg, A.M.; Northup, D.E. Fungal communities associatedwith rock varnish in black canyon, New Mexico: Casual inhabitants or essential partners? Geomicrobiol. J.2012 ,29, 752–766. [CrossRef]46. Gadd, G.M. Metals, minerals and microbes: Geomicrobiology and bioremediation. Microbiology 2010 ,156,609–643. [CrossRef] [PubMed]47. Fomina, M.A.; Alexander, I.J.; Colpaert, J.V .; Gadd, G.M. Solubilization of toxic metal minerals and metaltolerance of mycorrhizal fungi. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2005 ,37, 851–866. [CrossRef]48. Kolo, K.; Keppens, E.; Preat, A.; Claeys, P . Experimental observations on fungal diagenesis of carbonatesubstrates. J. Geophys. Res. Biogeosci. 2007 ,112. [CrossRef]49. Fomina, M.; Burford, E.P .; Hillier, S.; Kierans, M.; Gadd, G.M. Rock-building fungi. Geomicrobiol. J. 2010 ,27,624–629. [CrossRef]50. Gadd, G.M. Interactions of fungi with toxic metals. New Phytol. 1993 ,124, 25–60. [CrossRef]51. Fomina, M.; Hillier, S.; Charnock, J.M.; Melville, K.; Alexander, I.J.; Gadd, G.M. Role of oxalic acidoverexcretion in transformations of toxic metal minerals by Beauveria caledonica .Appl. Environ. Microbiol.2005 ,71, 371–381. [CrossRef] [PubMed]52. Verrecchia, E.P . Fungi and sediments. In Microbial Sediments ; Riding, R.E., Awramik, S.M., Eds.;Springer-Verlag: Berlin, Heidelberg, Germany, 2000.53. Hofﬂand, E.; Kuyper, T.W.; Wallander, H.; Plassard, C.; Gorbushina, A.A.; Haselwandter, K.; Holmstrom, S.;Landeweert, R.; Lundstrom, U.S.; Rosling, A.; et al. The role of fungi in weathering. Front. Ecol. Environ.2004 ,2, 258–264. [CrossRef]54. Cromack, K., Jr.; Sollins, P .; Todd, R.L.; Fogel, R.; Todd, A.W.; Fender, W.M.; Crossley, M.E.; Crossley, D.A., Jr.The role of oxalic acid and bicarbonate in calcium cycling by fungi and bacteria: Some possible implicationsfor soil animals. In Proceedings of the VI International Soil Zoology Colloquium, Uppsala, Sweden, 21–25June 1976.55. Gadd, G.M. Fungal production of citric and oxalic acid: Importance in metal speciation, physiology andbiogeochemical processes. In Advances in Microbial Physiology ; Academic Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 1999;Volume 41, pp. 47–92.56. Adeyemi, A.O.; Gadd, G.M. Fungal degradation of calcium-, lead-and silicon-bearing minerals. Biometals2005 ,18, 269–281. [CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Schilling, J.S.; Jellison, J. Oxalate regulation by two brown rot fungi decaying oxalate-amended andnon-amended wood. Holzforschung 2005 ,59, 681–688. [CrossRef]58. Tuason, M.M.S.; Arocena, J.M. Calcium oxalate biomineralization by Piloderma fallax in response to variouslevels of calcium and phosphorus. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2009 ,75, 7079–7085. [CrossRef] [PubMed]59. Gadd, G.M. Fungi in Biogeochemical Cycles ; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2006; Volume 24.60. Gadd, G.M. Bacterial and fungal geomicrobiology: A problem with communities? Geobiology 2008 ,6, 278–284.[CrossRef] [PubMed]Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 16 of 1961. Gadd, G.M.; Raven, J.A. Geomicrobiology of eukaryotic microorganisms. Geomicrobiol. J. 2010 ,27, 491–519.[CrossRef]62. Stumm, W.; Morgan, J.J. Aquatic Chemistry: Chemical Equilibria and Rates in Natural Waters ; John Wiley & SonsInc.: New York, NY, USA, 1996; p. 1022.63. Dutton, M.V .; Evans, C.S. Oxalate production by fungi: Its role in pathogenicity and ecology in the soilenvironment. Can. J. Microbiol. 1996 ,42, 881–895. [CrossRef]64. Oggerin, M.; Rodriguez, N.; del Moral, C.; Amils, R. Fungal jarosite biomineralization in Rio Tinto.Res. Microbiol. 2014 ,165, 719–725. [CrossRef] [PubMed]65. Fomina, M.; Podgorsky, V .S.; Olishevska, S.V .; Kadoshnikov, V .M.; Pisanska, I.R.; Hillier, S.; Gadd, G.M.Fungal deterioration of barrier concrete used in nuclear waste disposal. Geomicrobiol. J. 2007 ,24, 643–653.[CrossRef]66. Fomina, M.; Charnock, J.M.; Hillier, S.; Alvarez, R.; Livens, F.; Gadd, G.M. Role of fungi in the biogeochemicalfate of depleted uranium. Curr. Biol. 2008 ,18, R375–R377. [CrossRef] [PubMed]67. Rhee, Y.J.; Hillier, S.; Gadd, G.M. Lead transformation to pyromorphite by fungi. Curr. Biol. 2012 ,22, 237–241.[CrossRef] [PubMed]68. Crusberg, T.C. Biomineralization of copper by a fungus revealed by SEM. Microsc. Anal. 2004 ,18, 11–13.69. Liang, X.; Hillier, S.; Pendlowski, H.; Gray, N.; Ceci, A.; Gadd, G.M. Uranium phosphate biomineralizationby fungi. Environ. Microbiol. 2015 ,17, 2064–2075. [CrossRef] [PubMed]70. Verrecchia, E.P .; Dumont, J.L. A biogeochemical model for chalk alteration by fungi in semiarid environments.Biogeochemistry 1996 ,35, 447–470. [CrossRef]71. Burford, E.P .; Hillier, S.; Gadd, G.M. Biomineralization of fungal hyphae with calcite (CaCO 3) and calciumoxalate mono- and dihydrate in Carboniferous limestone microcosms. Geomicrobiol. J. 2006 ,23, 599–611.[CrossRef]72. Hou, W.; Dou, C.; Lian, B.; Dong, H. The interaction of fungus with calcite and the effects on aqueousgeochemistry in karst systems. Carbonates Evaporites 2013 ,28, 413–418. [CrossRef]73. Castanier, S.; le Métayer-Levrel, G.L.; Perthuisot, J.-P . Ca-carbonates precipitation and limestone genesis—Themicrobiogeologist point of view. Sediment. Geol. 1999 ,126, 9–23. [CrossRef]74. Bowen, A.D.; Davidson, F.A.; Keatch, R.; Gadd, G.M. Induction of contour sensing in Aspergillus niger bystress and its relevance to fungal growth mechanics and hyphal tip structure. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2007 ,44,484–491. [CrossRef] [PubMed]75. Verrecchia, E.P .; Braissant, O.; Cailleau, G. The oxalate-carbonate pathway in soil carbon storage: The role offungi and oxalotrophic bacteria. In Fungi in Biogeochemical Cycles ; Cambridge University Press: New York,NY, USA, 2006; pp. 289–310.76. Guggiari, M.; Bloque, R.; Aragno, M.; Verrecchia, E.; Job, D.; Junier, P . Experimental calcium-oxalate crystalproduction and dissolution by selected wood-rot fungi. Int. Biodeterior. Biodegrad. 2011 ,65, 803–809.[CrossRef]77. Burbank, M.B.; Weaver, T.J.; Green, T.L.; Williams, B.C.; Crawford, R.L. Precipitation of calcite by indigenousmicroorganisms to strengthen liqueﬁable soils. Geomicrobiol. J. 2011 ,28, 301–312. [CrossRef]78. Li, Q.; Csetenyi, L.; Gadd, G.M. Biomineralization of metal carbonates by Neurospora crassa .Environ. Sci.Technol. 2014 ,48, 14409–14416. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Hou, W.; Lian, B.; Zhang, X. CO 2mineralization induced by fungal nitrate assimilation. Bioresour. Technol.2011 ,102, 1562–1566. [CrossRef] [PubMed]80. Jackson, S.L.; Heath, I.B. Roles of calcium-ions in hyphal tip growth. Microbiol. Rev. 1993 ,57, 367–382.[PubMed]81. Pitt, D.; Ugalde, U.O. Calcium in fungi. Plant Cell Environ. 1984 ,7, 467–475. [CrossRef]82. Manoli, F.; Koutsopoulos, S.; Dalas, E. Crystallization of calcite on chitin. J. Cryst. Growth 1997 ,182, 116–124.[CrossRef]83. Whitney, K. Systems of biomineralization in the fungi. In Origin, Evolution and Modern Aspects ofBiomineralization in Plants and Animals ; Crick, R.E., Ed.; Springer-Verlag: Berlin, Heidelberg, Germany, 1989.84. Simkiss, K. The processes of biomineralization in lower plants and animals—An overview. Biominer. LowerPlants Anim. 1986 ,30, 19–37.85. Schultze-Lam, S.; Fortin, D.; Davis, B.S.; Beveridge, T.J. Mineralization of bacterial surfaces. Chem. Geol. 1996 ,132, 171–181. [CrossRef]Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 17 of 1986. Barton, H.A.; Northup, D.E. Geomicrobiology in cave environments: Past, current and future perspectives.J. Cave Karst Stud. 2007 ,69, 163–178.87. Klappa, C. Calciﬁed ﬁlaments in Quaternary calcretes: Organo-mineral interactions in the subaerial vadoseenvironment. J. Sediment. Petrol. 1979 ,49, 955–968. [CrossRef]88. Wright, V .P . The role of fungal biomineralization in the formation of Early Carboniferous soil fabrics.Sedimentology 1986 ,33, 831–838. [CrossRef]89. Monger, H.C.; Daugherty, L.A.; Lindemann, W.C.; Liddell, C.M. Microbial precipitation of pedogenic calcite.Geology 1991 ,19, 997–1000. [CrossRef]90. Cailleau, G.; Verrecchia, E.P .; Braissant, O.; Emmanuel, L. The biogenic origin of needle ﬁbre calcite.Sedimentology 2009 ,56, 1858–1875. [CrossRef]91. Bindschedler, S.; Millière, L.; Cailleau, G.; Job, D.; Verrecchia, E.P . Calcitic Nanoﬁbres in Soils and Caves: APutative Fungal Contribution to Carbonatogenesis ; Geological Society, London, Special Publications: London,UK, 2010; Volume 336, pp. 225–238.92. Bindschedler, S.; Millière, L.; Cailleau, G.; Job, D.; Verrecchia, E.P . An ultrastructural approach to analogiesbetween fungal structures and needle ﬁber calcite. Geomicrobiol. J. 2012 ,29, 301–313. [CrossRef]93. Li, Q.; Csetenyi, L.; Paton, G.I.; Gadd, G.M. CaCO 3and SrCO 3bioprecipitation by fungi isolated fromcalcareous soil. Environ. Microbiol. 2015 ,17, 3082–3097. [CrossRef] [PubMed]94. Addadi, L.; Raz, S.; Weiner, S. Taking advantage of disorder: Amorphous calcium carbonate and its roles inbiomineralization. Adv. Mater. 2003 ,15, 959–970. [CrossRef]95. Benzerara, K.; Menguy, N.; Guyot, F.; Dominici, C.; Gillet, P . Nanobacteria-like calcite single crystals at thesurface of the tataouine meteorite. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2003 ,100, 7438–7442. [CrossRef]96. Faatz, M.; Gröhn, F.; Wegner, G. Amorphous calcium carbonate: Synthesis and potential intermediate inbiomineralization. Adv. Mater. 2004 ,16, 996–1000. [CrossRef]97. Rautaray, D.; Ahmad, A.; Sastry, M. Biosynthesis of CaCO 3crystals of complex morphology using a fungusand an actinomycete. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2003 ,125, 14656–14657. [CrossRef] [PubMed]98. Rautaray, D.; Ahmad, A.; Sastry, M. Biological synthesis of metal carbonate minerals using fungi andactinomycetes. J. Mater. Chem. 2004 ,14, 2333–2340. [CrossRef]99. Ahmad, A.; Rautaray, D.; Sastry, M. Biogenic calcium carbonate: Calcite crystals of variable morphology bythe reaction of aqueous Ca2+ions with fungi. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2004 ,14, 1075–1080. [CrossRef]100. Sanyal, A.; Rautaray, D.; Bansal, V .; Ahmad, A.; Sastry, M. Heavy-metal remediation by a fungus as a meansof production of lead and cadmium carbonate crystals. Langmuir 2005 ,21, 7220–7224. [CrossRef] [PubMed]101. Masaphy, S.; Zabari, L.; Pastrana, J.; Dultz, S. Role of fungal mycelium in the formation of carbonateconcretions in growing media—An investigation by SEM and synchrotron-based X-ray tomographicmicroscopy. Geomicrobiol. J. 2009 ,26, 442–450. [CrossRef]102. Verrecchia, E.P .; Dumont, J.L.; Rolko, K.E. Do fungi building limestones exist in semi-arid regions?Naturwissenschaften 1990 ,77, 584–586. [CrossRef]103. Verrecchia, E.P .; Verrecchia, K.E. Needle-ﬁber calcite—A critical-review and a proposed classiﬁcation.J. Sediment. Res. Sect. Sediment. Petrol. Processes 1994 ,64, 650–664.104. Cailleau, G.; Dadras, M.; Abolhassani-Dadras, S.; Braissant, O.; Verrecchia, E.P . Evidence for an organicorigin of pedogenic calcitic nanoﬁbres. J. Cryst. Growth 2009 ,311, 2490–2495. [CrossRef]105. Millière, L.; Hasinger, O.; Bindschedler, S.; Cailleau, G.; Spangenberg, J.E.; Verrecchia, E.P . Stable carbon andoxygen isotope signatures of pedogenic needle ﬁbre calcite. Geoderma 2011 ,161, 74–87. [CrossRef]106. Kubiëna, W.L. Micropedology. Soil Sci. 1939 ,47, 163. [CrossRef]107. Verges, V .; Madon, M.; Bruand, A.; Bocquier, G. Morphologie et cristallogenèse de microcristaux supergènesde calcite en aiguilles. Bull. Minéral. 1982 ,105, 351–356. (In French)108. Jones, B.; Ng, K.C. The structure and diagenesis of rhizoliths from Cayman Brac, British West Indies.J. Sediment. Petrol. 1988 ,58, 457–467.109. Callot, G.; Guyon, A.; Mousain, D. Relation between calcite needles and fungal hyphae in the soil. Agronomie1985 ,5, 209–216. [CrossRef]110. Phillips, S.E.; Self, P .G. Morphology, crystallography and origin of needle-ﬁber calcite in quaternarypedogenic calcretes of South Australia. Aust. J. Soil Res. 1987 ,25, 429–444. [CrossRef]111. Ould Mohamed, S.; Bruand, A. Morphology and origin of secondary calcite in soils from Beauce, France.Dev. Soil Sci. 1993 ,22, 27–36.Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 18 of 19112. Borsato, A.; Frisia, S.; Jones, B.; Van der Borg, K. Calcite moonmilk: Crystal morphology and environment offormation in caves in the Italian Alps. J. Sediment. Res. 2000 ,70, 1171–1182. [CrossRef]113. Javaux, E.J. Biomarkers. In Encyclopedia of Astrobiology ; Springer-Verlag: Berlin, Germany; Heidelberg,Germany, 2011; pp. 182–183.114. Simoneit, B.R.T. A review of current applications of mass spectrometry for biomarker/molecular tracerelucidations. Mass Spectrom. Rev. 2005 ,24, 719–765. [CrossRef] [PubMed]115. Simkiss, K.; Wilbur, K.M. Biomineralization: Cell Biology and Mineralization ; Academic Press: New York, NY,USA, 1989.116. Stumm, W. Chemistry of the Solid-Water Interface: Processes at the Mineral-Water and Particle-Water Interface inNatural Systems ; John Wiley & Son Inc.: New York, NY, USA, 1992.117. Barton, H.A.; Spear, J.R.; Pace, N.R. Microbial life in the underworld: Biogenicity in secondary mineralformations. Geomicrobiol. J. 2001 ,18, 359–368.118. Blyth, A.J.; Frisia, S. Molecular evidence for bacterial mediation of calcite formation in cold high-altitudecaves. Geomicrobiol. J. 2008 ,25, 101–111. [CrossRef]119. Benzerara, K.; Menguy, N. Looking for traces of life in minerals. Comptes Rendus Palevol 2009 ,8, 617–628.[CrossRef]120. Yoon, T.H. Applications of soft X-ray spectromicroscopy in material and environmental sciences.Appl. Spectrosc. Rev. 2009 ,44, 91–122. [CrossRef]121. Gilbert, P .; Abrecht, M.; Frazer, B.H. The organic-mineral interface in biominerals. Rev. Mineral. Geochem.2005 ,59, 157–185.122. Cavalazzi, B. Global to nano-scale relevance of Ca-carbonate biosignatures. Boll. Soc. Paleontol. Ital. 2013 ,52,139–140.123. Smits, M.M.; Herrmann, A.M.; Duane, M.; Duckworth, O.W.; Bonneville, S.; Benning, L.G.; Lundström, U.The fungal-mineral interface: Challenges and considerations of micro-analytical developments.Fungal Biol. Rev. 2009 ,23, 122–131.124. Dykstra, M.J.; Reuss, L.E. Biological Electron Microscopy: Theory, Techniques, and Troubleshooting ; KluwerAcademic/Plenum Publishers: New York, NY, USA, 2011.125. Canaveras, J.C.; Hoyos, M.; Sanchez-Moral, S.; Sanz-Rubio, E.; Bedoya, J.; Soler, V .; Groth, I.; Schumann, P .;Laiz, L.; Gonzalez, I.; et al. Microbial communities associated with hydromagnesite and needle-ﬁber aragonitedeposits in a karstic cave (Altamira, Northern Spain). Geomicrobiol. J. 1999 ,16, 9–25.126. Benzerara, K.; Menguy, N.; Lopez-Garcia, P .; Yoon, T.H.; Kazmierczak, J.; Tyliszczak, T.; Guyot, F.; Brown, G.E.Nanoscale detection of organic signatures in carbonate microbialites. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2006 ,103,9440–9445.127. Benzerara, K.; Miller, V .M.; Barell, G.; Kumar, V .; Miot, J.; Brown, G.E.; Lieske, J.C. Search for microbialsignatures within human and microbial calciﬁcations using soft X-ray spectromicroscopy. J. Investig. Med.2006 ,54, 367–379. [CrossRef]128. Obst, M.; Wang, J.; Hitchcock, A.P . Soft X-ray spectro-tomography study of cyanobacterial biomineralnucleation. Geobiology 2009 ,7, 577–591. [PubMed]129. Benzerara, K.; Yoon, T.H.; Tyliszczak, T.; Constantz, B.; Spormann, A.M.; Brown, G.E. Scanning transmissionX-ray microscopy study of microbial calciﬁcation. Geobiology 2004 ,2, 249–259. [CrossRef]130. Wagner, M. Single-cell ecophysiology of microbes as revealed by Raman microspectroscopy or secondaryion mass spectrometry imaging. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 2009 ,63, 411–429. [CrossRef] [PubMed]131. Kilburn, M.R.; Wacey, D. Nanoscale secondary ion mass spectrometry (NanoSIMS) as an analytical tool inthe geosciences. In Principles and Practive of Analytical Techniques in Geosciences ; Grice, K., Ed.; The RoyalSociety of Chemistry: Cambridge, UK, 2015; pp. 1–34.132. Anderson, I.C.; Cairney, J.W. Diversity and ecology of soil fungal communities: Increased understandingthrough the application of molecular techniques. Environ. Microbiol. 2004 ,6, 769–779. [CrossRef] [PubMed]133. Peay, K.G.; Kennedy, P .G.; Bruns, T.D. Fungal community ecology: A hybrid beast with a molecular master.Bioscience 2008 ,58, 799–810. [CrossRef]134. Lindahl, B.D.; Nilsson, R.H.; Tedersoo, L.; Abarenkov, K.; Carlsen, T.; Kjoller, R.; Koljalg, U.; Pennanen, T.;Rosendahl, S.; Stenlid, J.; et al. Fungal community analysis by high-throughput sequencing of ampliﬁedmarkers : A user’s guide. New Phytol. 2013 ,199, 288–299. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Minerals 2016 ,6, 41 19 of 19135. Vaughan, M.J.; Nelson, W.; Soderlund, C.; Maier, R.M.; Pryor, B.M. Assessing fungal community structurefrom mineral surfaces in Kartchner caverns using multiplexed 454 pyrosequencing. Microb. Ecol. 2015 ,70,175–187. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Jurado, V .; Fernandez-Cortes, A.; Cuezva, S.; Laiz, L.; Canaveras, J.C.; Sanchez-Moral, S.; Saiz-Jimenez, C.The fungal colonisation of rock-art caves: Experimental evidence. Naturwissenschaften 2009 ,96, 1027–1034.[CrossRef] [PubMed]137. Seifert, K.A. Progress towards DNA barcoding of fungi. Mol. Ecol. Resour. 2009 ,9, 83–89. [CrossRef][PubMed]138. Porter, T.M.; Golding, G.B. Factors that affect large subunit ribosomal DNA amplicon sequencing studies offungal communities: Classiﬁcation method, primer choice, and error. PLoS ONE 2012 ,7, e35749. [CrossRef]©2016 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open accessarticle distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution(CC-BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).