Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalChao Liang*Institute of Applied Ecology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenyang 110016, China1 IntroductionThe carbon (C) cycle plays a key role in regulating Earth ’sglobal temperature by in ﬂuencing the amount of greenhousegases, such as CO 2, in the atmosphere. Whether or notterrestrial ecosystem can serve as net C sink to mitigateclimate change in the coming decades is a matter of greatinterest. Terrestrial ecosystems have the potential to store C,as CO2isﬁxed in plants as biomass (representing a short-term C storage pool) via the process of photosynthesis, andfurther converts a portion of those plant biomass into the soilorganic C (SOC) pool by microbial metabolic activities thatlead to a long-term C storage (Schimel and Schaeffer, 2012;Liang et al., 2017). The SOC pool, as twice the size of theatmospheric C pool, is the largest dynamic terrestrial C pool,so even small changes in it are so large that they could have asigni ﬁcant impact on atmospheric CO2level (Eswaran et al.,1993; Stockmann et al., 2013). Microorganisms have nowbeen considered important as both the primary agents of SOCdecomposition and the dominant agents of SOC formation,understanding C dynamics in soils therefore stems from theunderstanding of microbial-mediated processes related toSOC dynamics (Bradford et al., 2016; Liang et al., 2017). Suchprocesses are important to be explored to understand theirrole in controlling atmospheric CO2level and land productivity.Soil C transformation and sequestration have been hotlydiscussed in recent years due to our evolving knowledge overtime on soil organic matter (SOM) formation (Schmidt et al.,2011; Cotrufo et al., 2013; Lehmann and Kleber, 2015; Lianget al., 2017; Sokol et al., 2019; Anthony et al., 2020).* Corresponding authorsE-mail address: cliang823@gmail.com (C. Liang)Soil Ecol. Lett. 2020, 2(4): 241 –254https://doi.org/10.1007/s42832-020-0052-4REVIEWABSTRACTThe soil microbial carbon pump (MCP) conceptualizes a sequestration mechanism based onthe process of microbial production of a set of new organic compounds, which carry the carbonfrom plant, through microbial anabolism, and enter into soil where it can be stabilized by theentombing effect. Understanding soil MCP and its related entombing effect is essential to thestewardship of ecosystem services, provided by microbial necromass in the formation andstabilization of soil organic matter as well as its resilience and vulnerability to global change.The mechanism and appraisal of soil MCP, however, remain to be elucidated. This lack ofknowledge hampers the improvement of climate models and the development of land usepolicies. Here, I overview available knowledge to provide insights on the nature of the soil MCPin the context of two main aspects, i.e., internal features and external constraints thatmechanistically in ﬂuence the soil MCP operation and ultimately in ﬂuence microbial necromassdynamics. The approach of biomarker amino sugars for investigation of microbial necromassand the methodological limitations are discussed. Finally, I am eager to call new investigationsto obtain empirical data in soil microbial necromass research area, which urgently awaitssynthesized quantitative and modeling studies to relate to soil carbon cycling and climatechange.© Higher Education Press 2020ARTICLE INFOArticle history:Received May 13, 2020Revised July 7, 2020Accepted July 13, 2020Keywords:Microbial carbon pumpMicrobial necromassBiomarkerSoil carbon stabilizationSoil organic matterGlobal changeTraditionally, long-lasting soil C was considered to be formedby chemical condensation into large, complex, and chemicallyrecalcitrant “humic materials ”(Stevenson, 1994); this viewhas been largely discredited at current years because SOM isincreasingly seen as being comprised of small molecules thatare the result of microbial metabolisms, including microbialbiomass and microbial processed compounds (Miltner et al.,2012; Lehmann and Kleber, 2015). Further, mountingevidence has continuously suggested that the incorporationof microbial biomass components into soils via microbialremnants is likely to be disproportionately large (Miltner et al.,2012; Fan and Liang, 2015; Kallenbach et al., 2016; Craig etal., 2018). As shown in the Fig. 1, microbial necromass inputscan play a far greater role in the sequestration of C into soilsthan traditionally believed, particularly when a signi ﬁcantportion of those inputs are more likely to be stabilized ratherthan plant inputs (Liang et al., 2017; Ma et al., 2018).Fundamentally, microbial necromass formation is an outcomeof microbial anabolism, which can actively in ﬂuence theprocesses of soil C formation and transformation. However, itremains largely elusive regarding the microbial anaboliccontrols on SOM processes and their interactions with bioticand abiotic factors. Here, I narrow down the role of microbialanabolism in the creation of SOM using the recently-proposedconcept of soil microbial carbon pump (MCP) (Liang et al.,2017). I discuss the mechanism and appraisal of soil MCP asFig. 1 Diagram showing the soil microbial carbon pump (MCP) and the potential factors in the context of internal features andexternal constraints (modi ﬁed from Liang et al., 2017 Nature Microbiology , 2: 17105). The soil MCP is a conceptual object todemonstrate the fact that microbial necromass and metabolites can be the precursors for persistent soil organic matter, whichparticularly highlights the importance of microbial anabolism in soil carbon storage. The yin-yang symbol in the MCP image isused to illustrate the carbon conversion to microbial necromass is driven, but driven differently, by both bacteria and fungi withdifferent trophic strategies. Speci ﬁcity to only plant deposits is set in the diagram, although the soil MCP concept can apply tomultiple types of organic substrate including anthropogenic and animal inputs.242 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalwell as its resilience to disturbance or changing environmentalconditions.2 Soil microbial carbon pump (MCP)The MCP posits a mechanistic concept of C sequestration viamicrobial anabolism, ﬁrst raised by marine scholars (Jiao etal., 2010), and is shaping a new direction in ocean C cycleresearch (Lechtenfeld et al., 2015; Jiao et al., 2018). Simply,the MCP describes that microbes can play a dominant role in“pumping ”bio-available C into a pool of persistent organiccompounds after passing through their biomass in environ-ments. In terrestrial system, the soil MCP moves microbiallysynthesized compounds into soil where it can be stabilized byintimate physical interaction on soil minerals or withinaggregates, as called the entombing effect (Liang et al.,2017). Compared to relatively much research on the MCP inoceans, somewhat less effort has focused on the soil MCP,which nevertheless can and actually is revolutionizing ourview of soil C sequestration and further global C cycling.The soil MCP provides a formalized focus on the ﬂow andmicrobial transformation of plant-derived C through microbialbiomass and ultimately conversion into the stable soil C pool(Liang and Balser, 2011; Liang et al., 2017). Microbes residingin soil can grow and turn over rapidly during decomposition ofplant litters and other soil organic materials for buildingmicrobial biomass (Liang et al., 2011; Miltner et al., 2012).Then, after cell death several organic cell compounds releaseinto soils via microbial necromass, including cell envelopefragments and colloidal former cytosolic matter that survivedre-utilization by the next microbial generation (Liang et al.,2019); part of those necromass can be stabilized in soils forextended periods whether via protection by physical interac-tions or lack of activation energy due to chemical composition(Liang et al., 2017). In soil science ﬁeld, the microbial-drivenconversion of organic materials into stable soil C pool (here,soil MCP) has been conceptually considered since a long timeago (Kögel-Knabner, 2002), but until relatively recent years itstarted gaining increasing attentions as a primary pathway ofSOM formation due to mounting empirical evidence to supportits predominant importance in later years (Simpson et al.,2007; Kallenbach et al., 2016; Tao et al., 2017; Shao et al.,2019; Sokol and Bradford, 2019).Direct microbial contributions to sequestered C havehistorically been regarded as low and even ignored asnegligible in many instances, as active living microbialbiomass makes up < 5% of soil organic matter (SOM) (Wardle,1992; Dalal, 1998; Xu et al., 2013), and total microbialbiomass C was reported < 4% of the SOC (Anderson andJoergensen, 1997). However, the belief of insigni ﬁcantmicrobial contribution to SOC pool might not be a validperception as living biomass alone does not properly indicatelong-term C dynamics (Potthoff et al., 2008; Liang et al., 2011).Indeed, empirical data and conceptual models all suggest thatmicrobial contributions to SOC could be disproportionatelylarge relative to the living biomass. Microbial necromass canexist as relatively recalcitrant polymers, some of which havebeen suggested as important components of stable C pool insoils (Guggenberger et al., 1999; Liang and Balser, 2008;Ludwig et al., 2015). Qualitatively,13C-NMR analysis showedthat microbial metabolic products have similar structures tostable humic substances, which indicates a signi ﬁcantincorporation of microbial-derived C (Simpson et al., 2007).In addition, microbial-derived moieties are found stabilizedinto ﬁner soil particles over time based on analysis ofbiomarkers, e.g., higher ratios of hexose to pentose andgreater amino sugar contents were detected in ﬁner relative tocoarser soil fractions, indicating the high contribution ofmicrobial necromass to more stable soil C pools (Guggen-berger et al., 1994; Kiem and Kogel-Knabner, 2003). Forquantitative aspect, Liang et al. (2011) modeled and simulatedthe turnover of microbial biomass using an Absorbing MarkovChain, in which the relative amounts of microbial livingbiomass and dead necromass in soils were calculated,suggesting that microbial necromass C could be about 40times greater than living biomass C. If we assume microbialliving biomass C is 2% of the total SOC, the C in thenecromass would account for 80% of the organic C in soils(Liang and Balser, 2011). Recently, Liang et al. (2019)estimated the contribution of microbial necromass to thetopsoil organic C in temperate agricultural, grassland, andforest ecotypes, averagely ranging from 30% to 60%. Fromanother view, Whitman et al. (1998) calculated the totalamount of prokaryotic cellular C in the world (350 -550 pg ofC), and suggested that prior estimates of this value were likelytoo conservative. If we account for fast microbial turnover andthe ubiquity of fungi that present in soil, the amount ofmicrobial-derived C in terrestrial systems is likely enormous.In sum, microbial necromass can result in a signi ﬁcant netcontribution of microbial-derived C to the stable soil C pool.As the stable SOC pool is the most important for long-termC sequestration (Swift, 2001), research on the soil MCP,particularly how it governs soil C cycling and how it mayrespond to global change, is critical for understandingmicrobial involvement and control over SOC stabilizationand consequently for global C cycling. A conceptual frame-work associated with the soil MCP model has been recentlyestablished to demonstrate the relevant pathways and effectsof soil MCP (Liang et al., 2017). Accordingly, the mainconsequence of the soil MCP refers to the formation andaccumulation of microbial n ecromass in soils, and theunderlying mechanism of the soil MCP will determine asoil ’s capacity to retain persistent organic C. However,insuf ﬁcient knowledge about the mechanism and appraisalof soil MCP is yet to be fully understood.3 Mechanistic understanding of soil MCPUnderstanding whether and, if so, how microbial necromassdynamics get changed will enhance our knowledge of how thesoil MCP operates and serves ecosystem functions. Iintegrate available knowledge to provide insights on theChao Liang 243nature of the soil MCP in the context of two main aspects: theinternal features of the MCP and the external constraints thatregulate the MCP.3.1 Internal features of MCP3.1.1 Microbial physiologyMicrobial physiological traits, such as cell chemistry, cellmass, growth rate, and growth ef ﬁciency, can in ﬂuencemicrobial necromass production, accumulation, and persis-tence in soils. Those traits can differ in different microbialspecies or taxa, and may directly impact on the quantity andcomposition of microbial biomass generated during microbialgrowth and activity. Part of that biomass will contribute to SOCstorage as a series of derivative forms of necromass alongwith degradation. Speci ﬁcally, microbial growth rate andgrowth ef ﬁciency, de ﬁned as number of cells generated perunit of time and amount of biomass generated per unit ofsubstrate utilization, have been widely used as indices in alarge volume of literature, which has suggested that there is alarge variability in microbial handling of individual substrates(Lee and Schmidt, 2014; Geyer et al., 2016) and might bepredicted by the number of rRNA genes in microbial genomes(Roller et al., 2016). Despite recent evidence showing thathigher microbial growth rate and ef ﬁciency can increase Cstorage in agricultural soils (Kallenbach et al., 2015) and ingrassland soils (Poeplau et al., 2019), there still remains greatuncertainty regarding how and in which directions these traitswill impact SOC pools (Anthony et al., 2020; Malik et al.,2020). For example, higher microbial growth ef ﬁciency canaugment SOC storage by increasing the amount of C from soilmicrobial biomass and ultimately necromass, while increasedmicrobial biomass C may also enhance production of C-degrading enzymes leading to decreased soil C stocks (Kivlinet al., 2013). The impacts of microbial physiological traits onSOC dynamics can also vary at multiple ecological scales(Geyer et al., 2016). At the individual level, those microbialphysiologic traits can differ along with growth stages andamong niche environments associated with different stres-sors, where each individual microbial species has their ownoptimal growth rate and growth ef ﬁciency; at the communitylevel, those traits each represent an averaged feature, asinﬂuenced by the relative abundance of different species orfunctional groups and by their responses to environmentaldisturbances. We may believe that the microorganismsthemselves, as executor of the soil MCP for biomassproduction and necromass accumulation, act as a criticalsteward for C storage in terrestrial ecosystems.3.1.2 Chemical recalcitranceMolecular properties of a chemical compound, includingmolecule size, polarity, ether-bridges, and chemical bondtype, determine its relative stability. In general, simplemonomers with low molecular weight are labile and easilyutilized by organisms, while high molecular weight polymershave relatively longer retention time (Malik et al., 2016).Hence, the chemical complexity of a microbial cell and itsdegradation products can in ﬂuence to what extent those C-containing compounds will persist in soils. Aliphatic compo-nents are often abundant in SOM (Kögel-Knabner, 2002) andpresumed to result from incorporation of microbial-derivedproducts ( microbial recycled ) and microbial-altered plantstructures ( exocellular modi ﬁcation ), but how the microbialanabolism-induced C contributes quantitatively to preserva-tion of soil aliphatic compounds remains unclear. In otherwords, there is little information on what proportion ofmicrobial-derived compounds, driven by the soil MCP, ispersistent in the soil C pool. Prior studies have reported thatmost of the nitrogen in SOM (based on15N-NMR) is in theform of amides, apparently derived from senesced microbialbiomass (Knicker, 2000), and that some microbial synthesizedcompounds can be extremely dif ﬁcult to decompose (Rillig etal., 2001; Knicker, 2004). By using amino sugar analysis,Guggenberger et al. (1999) found that SOM contained two tothree orders of magnitude more of those microbial-derivedcompounds than were bound in living microbial biomass.Indeed, most microbial cell components are macromoleculepolymers that may resist degradation to some extent(Amelung, 2001). Despite the (bio)chemical stability ofcomplex microbial-derived polymeric structures, there issubstantial evidence suggesting that the persistence ofunaltered organic compounds (whether microbial or plantorigin) in soil has little to do with molecular structuralcharacteristics, but rather, is mostly due to other, non-chemical stabilization mechanisms (Lehmann and Kleber,2015).3.1.3 Physical protectionPhysical protection as a stabilization mechanism for C storagein soils has drawn increasing attention in recent years asstudies have shown that interactions between SOC andminerals play a more important role in C sequestration thanthe chemical structure of organic molecules (Mikutta et al.,2006; Schmidt et al., 2011; Dungait et al., 2012). Physicalprotection of SOC includes spatial inaccessibility due toentrapment within soil aggregates and pore space as well asstabilization due to sorption to soil minerals (Sollins et al.,1996; Baldock and Skjemstad, 2000; von Lützow et al., 2006;Jastrow et al., 2007; Kögel-Knabner et al., 2008; Lehmannand Kleber, 2015). Most studies investigating the impact ofmineral interactions with SOC had focused on humic acids(Schlautman and Morgan, 1994) or simple humic acidsurrogates (Kubicki et al., 1999), in which soil microbialnecromass usually was not clearly de ﬁned. Recent effortshave been made to focus on the formation and persistence ofmicrobial necromass in relation to mineralogy, but associatedmechanisms have just started to be understood (Pronk et al.,2015; Creamer et al., 2019). Nevertheless, isotopic analyseshave demonstrated14C enrichment of microbial sugars inmineral-bound organic matter fractions, suggesting thatmicrobial-derived polysaccharides are most likely stabilized244 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalpreferentially by mineral interactions compared to plant-derived polysaccharides (Rumpel et al., 2010). One directstudy on degradation of13C-labeled extracellular DNAshowed that kaolinite amendment can decrease DNAdecomposition rates signi ﬁcantly, and amended soils retaina much higher fraction of DNA-C than unamended soils,indicating that clay minerals may stabilize DNA-derived C(Morrissey et al., 2015). Based on the mass balance of a soilmicrocosm with13C-labeled bacterial cells and on thevisualization of microbial residues by means of scanningelectron microscopy, Miltner et al. (2012) posited thatmicrobial cell compounds interact with soil minerals andbecome stabilized through forming patchy fragments, aprocess they termed the “patchy fragment formation cycle. ”This mineral-interaction process is consistent with the “Micro-bial Ef ﬁciency-Matrix Stabilization ”conceptual model (Cotrufoet al., 2013) and “entombing effect ”concept (Liang et al.,2017), which can well explain the ef ﬁcient stabilization ofeasily-degradable microbial cell compounds found in soils,such as polysaccharides (Kiem and Kogel-Knabner, 2003),carbohydrates and fatty acids (Ludwig et al., 2015), andbiomass-derived compounds in general (Simpson et al.,2007). Such interactions are also consistent with the conceptof protection of labile substrates via the inaccessibility createdby the ﬁlling of soil pores at the submicron scale, which couldbe related to the idea of physical occlusion of organic coatingson clay minerals through the formation of clay-sized aggre-gates and nano-scale structures (Lehmann et al., 2007;McCarthy et al., 2008; Monreal et al., 2010).3.2 External constraints on MCPMicrobial necromass dynamics in soils involve two simulta-neous and fundamental sets of processes: 1) the productionof microbial biomass and necromass, and 2) the concomitantmineralization of those microbial synthesized products. Thesetwo processes are in ﬂuenced by abiotic factors such asclimate and soil properties, and also by biotic factors such asorganisms and human activities. It is a challenging task totease apart these two processes, i.e., production andmineralization, when studying microbial necromassdynamics, and even more challenging to separately evaluateeach individual process, as affected by external in ﬂuentialvariables. As a result, investigations of soil microbialnecromass dynamics have often focused on the neteffectsof the soil MCP function.3.2.1 Edaphic factorsThe stabilization of microbial necromass in soils should belinked to soil properties (Amelung, 2001). So far, only a fewsporadic studies have explored those linkages beyond SOC.The size of SOC pool has been often related to a soil ’s innatecapacity to retain microbial necromass as evaluated bybiomarker amino sugars (Zhang et al., 1999; Liang et al.,2007; Martins et al., 2012). Additional studies also found asimilar strong correlation between SOC and total aminosugars across the broad range of climatic conditions of theNorth American prairie (Amelung et al., 2001), along amountain altitudinal gradient (Zhang et al., 2013) and atemperate forest successional stage (Shao et al., 2019). Weare lacking knowledge of knowing how other soil properties,e.g., pH and stoichiometry, in ﬂuence soil microbial necromassdynamics, despite that many of which can signi ﬁcantly affectmicrobial community structure and activity. The magnitude ofthe soil microbial necromass pool appears to be determinedby historical edaphic attributes related to soil development,such as clay contents (Liang et al., 2013; Khan et al., 2016;Ma et al., 2018), than by what type of organisms are present.Based on a prior study that focused on how microbialbiomass lipids and general soil attributes affected microbialamino sugars under biofuel cropping systems (Liang et al.,2013), soil properties such as total C and clay content, but notexisting biota (biofuel crop species and microbial functionalgroup biomass), predicted soil amino sugar pro ﬁles, whichsuggests differences in microbial necromass among studysites were likely more due to differences in soil legacyproperties rather than to current biotic drivers. The absence ofany correlation between the current microbial composition(lipids) and legacies of past microbial activity (amino sugars)suggests that microbial necromass may represent ecosystemtrends more faithfully when not being evaluated as staticsystem properties. Thus, the size of the soil microbialnecromass pool likely is signi ﬁcantly affected by the legacyconditions under which the MCP has been operating. This isalso supported by the close linkage between necromassbiomarker amino sugar concentrations and parent materialsthat experienced long and intense weathering in forest soils(Moritz et al., 2009; Ding et al., 2017).3.2.2 Climate driversGeneral concerns about climate change have led to growinginterest in the response of terrestrial ecosystems to multipleenvironmental changes. Environmental change has beenpredicted to have major consequences for C cycling and soilecosystem function. To date, the majority of studies investi-gating ecosystem C storage responses triggered by climatechange drivers have focused on above-ground plant tissuechemistry and biomass production (Mooney et al., 1999), thedynamics of total soil C stock (Jastrow et al., 2005; vanGroenigen et al., 2006), and microbial eco-physiologicalindices (Frey et al., 2008). However, somewhat limited studieshave examined the persistence of soil microbial necromass asaffected by climate change drivers (Glaser et al., 2006; Lianget al., 2015; Jia et al., 2017). Nevertheless, accurateprediction of the impact of climate change on microbialstabilization of SOC will require knowledge of the response ofmicrobial-derived C to a range of environmental factors, fromwhich we can further build an understanding of the intrinsicmechanisms underlying the persistence and transformation ofmicrobial necromass C in soil.Simulated global change events (e.g., warming, elevatedCO2, N deposition) provide evidence that environmentalChao Liang 245change may impact the accumulation of microbial necromassstorage in some soil systems (Glaser et al., 2006; vanGroenigen et al., 2007; Liang et al., 2015; Jia et al., 2017; Dinget al., 2019). For example, in a California grasslandecosystem after continuous 9-year manipulation of climatechange drivers, warming and N deposition were found to bothdeplete the fraction of C derived from microbes in soils,although two very different reasons explained the loweredproportion of microbial necromass in the total SOC pool.Under warming, microbial necromass decreased signi ﬁcantlywhile total SOC remained relatively constant, whereas underN deposition total SOC increased but microbial necromassdecreased slightly (Liang and Balser, 2012). Microbialnecromass decreases in response to warming and Ndeposition; a decrease in microbial contributions to the soilC pool indicates a malfunction of the soil MCP, and thepotential consequences could be severe. If persistent SOCaccumulates and forms over the long-term (centuries tomillennia), yet can be lost relatively quickly in response toperturbations, it will be dif ﬁcult if not impossible to recover orrestore this C on decadal timescales. This type of impact onsoil C cycling might substantially disrupt the C source-sinkbalance of terrestrial systems experiencing environmentalclimate change.3.2.3 Land-use changeAnthropogenic land-use change is occurring worldwideacross different ecosystems, driven by the demand to providefood, energy, and other resources for human consumption(Foley et al., 2005). Land-use changes, whether conversionfrom natural to managed or a switch in management practiceson managed lands, transform the land surface, and conse-quently affect ecosystem functions, such as sustaining plantproduction, maintaining ecosystem health, and regulatingclimate.Empirical studies have shown that anthropogenic land-usechange, primarily agricultural management, can have sub-stantial impacts on SOM and microbial necromass in soils(Joergensen et al., 2010; Ding et al., 2013; Zhang et al., 2014;Zhu et al., 2018; Zhu et al., 2020). For instance, long-termcontinuous cultivation was found to reduce biomarker aminosugars derived from microbial necromass (Zhang et al., 1999;Solomon et al., 2001), and other studies have observed a slowrecovery of these markers over a decadal time scale whenrestoring degraded land (Amelung et al., 2001; Lauer et al.,2011). Speci ﬁcally, the long-term effects of manure applicationon the amount and distribution of amino sugars within differentaggregate size classes were assessed for an agriculturalMollisol (Ding et al., 2015); the study showed the aggregate-speci ﬁc dynamics of microbial necromass and the rate ofincrease in amino sugars decreased with increasing manureapplication and ultimately reached an apparent saturationpoint. These observations on the dynamics of microbialnecromass within aggregates suggest the soil MCP operatesin a hierarchical manner and that the performance capacity ofthe MCP could be improved through alterations in anthro-pogenic land management practices.3.2.4 Faunal interactionMicrobe-mediated C processes rarely occur in nature withoutthe involvement of other organisms. Co-inhabiting withmicroorganism are numerous soil animals including herbi-vores, detritivores, microbivores, predators and omnivores(Bardgett and van der Putten, 2014). Despite increasingevidence demonstrating that soil fauna play a key role indecomposition, few studies have evaluated the contribution ofsoil fauna to microbial-derived C and its subsequentstabilization in soils (Crowther et al., 2015; Soong et al.,2016; Gan et al., 2018). However, it is safe to believe soilfauna manipulate soil MCP, signi ﬁcantly in ﬂuencing SOMdynamics and microbial necromass production (Grandy et al.,2016). This is a rewarding area for future research toinvestigate the magnitude and direction of faunal effects onthe function of the soil MCP.We can identify three main avenues: 1) regulation of thequantity and quality of organic C entering the soil MCP; 2) top-down regulation of microbial population dynamics withsubsequent controls on the size and ef ﬁciency of the soilMCP; 3) modi ﬁcation of soil structure as a result of thephysical movement and activities of soil animals (Fig. 2).1) Fauna may modify resource availability to microbes: inaddition to frequently-discussed animal impacts on above-ground plant biomass and community, invertebrates that relyon living (roots or root products by herbivores) or dead(detritus by detritivores) plant materials for food may directlymodify input rates of high-energy C substrates available tomicroorganisms. By introducing feces or invertebrate cada-vers, these phytophagous or saprotrophic animals canprovide an alternate food resource for microorganisms(Hunter, 2001). As such, food resource availability andsubsequent production of microbial biomass may increaseunder moderate phytophagy or detritivory by soil animals.Alternatively, outbreaks of root feeding pests or invasions bylarge populations of detritivores (such as invasive earth-worms) could increase competition for C resources withmicrobes, and subsequent diversion of organic C into animalbiomass may reduce the amount of C entering the soil MCPand thus cause a decline in microbial biomass production(Eisenhauer et al., 2011).2) Fauna eat microbes and may alter their populations:direct feeding –such as bacteria-feeding protozoa andnematodes and fungi-feeding arthropods and enchytraeidsworms –can alter microbial population size and activity, whichwould likely have diverse effects on the functioning of the soilMCP. First, consumption of microbial biomass could enhancethe rate of microbial turnover and potentially reduce thestanding stock of active biomass. Alternatively, microbialpopulations may be stimulated by and show over-compensa-tory growth in the presence of microbivores due to the removalof hyphae and the release of nutrients from the feces andother waste produced by the grazers (Hanlon, 1981; Fu et al.,246 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisal2005; Crowther et al., 2012). Further yet, microbes may alsorespond to faunal grazing by shifting resource allocation fromgrowth to defense via the production of secondary metabolites(Fine et al., 2006; Böllmann et al., 2010). Under all of thesepotential scenarios, faunal grazing may substantially changemicrobial growth ef ﬁciency and subsequent contributions ofmicrobial-derived C to SOM.3) Burrowing animals may mix soils and disrupt soilstructures: movement of fauna through soils could increasethe accessibility of organic matter to microbes by increasingthe rate of aggregate turnover, transporting microbes topatches with available substrates, or alter the distribution ofC and N in soils (Li et al., 2002; Jouquet et al., 2006; Wilkinsonet al., 2009), which may stimulate the soil MCP for producinghigher microbial biomass. However, extensive soil distur-bance caused by faunal activities might also reduce the Cstabilization by reducing occlusion and physical protection oforganic matter (Wolters, 2000), part of which is the microbialnecromass that can be degraded due to reducing entombingeffect in this scenario.These mentioned mechanisms conceptually partition soilfaunal effects on the soil MCP into three simpli ﬁed mechan-istic categories (modi ﬁcation of plant-derived resources formicrobial communities, direct modi ﬁcation of microbial com-munity size and composition, and alteration of SOM acces-sibility); those mechanisms, however, rarely exist in isolation.For example, most phytophagous insects and microbivores insoils are likely to move within the soil matrix in search of betterfood, water and air resources. Some animals, such asearthworms –which are well known as active movers withinsoils –can feed on both plant detritus and microorganisms(Lavelle, 1997). While there exist many challenges todisentangle the exact faunal controls on soil microbialprocesses, their interactions, and feedbacks among differentfaunal guilds, the existence of enormous knowledge gaps tointegrate soil fauna and microbial necromass offers greatopportunities for improved understanding and progress inexplaining how soil animals manipulate the soil MCP andcontribute to SOM formation.4 Appraisal on the soil MCP4.1 Biomarker approach to study microbial necromassThe soil MCP can be evaluated by quantifying absoluteFig. 2 Soil fauna manipulate MCP with effects dependent on functional guilds. The left part (A) is a stylized illustration of soilfauna as a “butler ”of the soil MCP. The right part (B) illustrates hypothesized microbial necromass dynamics for differentfunctional guilds of soil fauna, which regulate the soil MCP through their effects on carbon resources (herbivore and detritivore),microbial populations (microbivore), and soil habitat (all mobile organisms). The dotted lines indicate the size of the microbialnecromass pool before introducing soil fauna. The letter “P”(size + mobility) is used to index the capability of soil fauna to remold asoil ’s structure (here P b>Ps).Chao Liang 247abundance of microbial necromass in soil and relativeabundance of its proportion in SOC. Direct measurement ofmicrobial necromass is dif ﬁcult since it is hard to differentiatethe C in microbial residues from non-microbial organic C.Microbial residues comprise a complex mixture of com-pounds; there are, however, characteristic biomarkers thatcan be used to trace the microbial origin of SOC. Thosebiomarkers do not indicate living microbial biomass, butrather, microbial necromass. Theoretically, any organiccompounds contained in microbial cells that are preservedin soils over long periods may help identify the mechanisms ofSOM transformation and microbial necromass dynamics.However, a particularly useful microbial biomarkers areamino sugars; they are absent in plants (Amelung, 2001),stable against ﬂuctuations in microbial activities (Nannipieri etal., 1979; Chantigny et al., 1997), and can be stabilized aftercell death (Glaser et al., 2004). Additionally, different microbialgroups produce different amino sugars; fungi produce themajority of glucosamine while bacteria produce muramic acid(Amelung, 2001). To convert biomarker mass to necromass,conversion factors of 9 and 45 have been suggested forconverting glucosamine and muramic acid to fungal andbacterial necromass-C, respectively (Appuhn and Joergen-sen, 2006). Analysis of amino sugar concentration, composi-tion and dynamics over time can link microorganisms at thegross community level to SOC sequestration under differentenvironmental conditions (Guggenberger et al., 1999; Ame-lung, 2001; Glaser et al., 2004; Joergensen and Emmerling,2006; Niggemann and Schubert, 2006; Ding et al., 2015;Liang et al., 2015; Joergensen, 2018).Coupling amino sugar biomarkers with stable isotopeanalysis adds an additional level of analytical power to 1)quantify sequestration and turnover of speci ﬁc organiccompounds in the environment (Glaser, 2005), and 2) tracethe origin of organic substances (Boschker and Middelburg,2002). Isotopic analysis of amino sugars can offer uniqueopportunities to link the microbial groups (fungi or bacteria)involved with the necromass storage (total amino sugarcontent) and the necromass accumulation rate (isotope13Cassimilation) (Glaser and Gross, 2005; Liang and Balser,2010). In such applications, the isotopic changes in aminosugar compounds allow us to directly differentiate andquantitatively assess newly biosynthesized vs. old extantamino sugars (Glaser and Gross, 2005; He et al., 2006). Todate, various methods have been developed to measure the13C in amino sugars including: gas chromatography/combus-tion/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (GC/c/IRMS) (Glaserand Gross, 2005; Decock et al., 2009), liquid chromatography/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (LC/IRMS) (Bodé et al.,2009; Bai et al., 2013), gas chromatography/mass spectro-metry (GC/MS) (He et al., 2005), and ion chromatography/oxidation/isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IC/o/IRMS) (Dip-pold et al., 2014). All methods were developed to trace C ﬂowsthrough microbial biomass to microbial-derived C accumula-tion in soils. IRMS measures isotope C by analyzing the d13Cof individual amino sugar compounds at close to naturalabundance, in which the LC/IRMS and IC/o/IRMS methods donot demand the derivatization step that can produce largeanalytical errors due to high variability in correcting d13C-values caused by error propagation (Decock et al., 2009); GC/MS is a suitable solution in experiments with highly arti ﬁcialconcentrations of13C (e.g., incubation with a highly13C-labeled substrate), providing structural information about howthe substrate-C is incorporated into newly-synthesized aminosugars during microbial transformation (He et al., 2005; Liangand Balser, 2010). Except for IC/o/IRMS, all other mentionedapproaches have been successfully used to assess microbialC transformation and necromass accumulation over time insoils under natural abundance (e.g., C3 to C4 plant conver-sion) or arti ﬁcial13C-labeled conditions (Glaser, 2005).4.2 Caveats and limitationsIn soil studies with an aim on C sequestration, it is necessaryto account for the features of persistent C and investigate themechanisms protecting that C from decomposition. Suchinsights into the stabilization of SOM are essential because itis the slow turnover SOM pool that determines C sequestra-tion in soil. Characterizing and quantifying this pool and itsunderlying protection mechanisms are not straightforward andhave eluded researchers for decades. To this end, we focuson microbial necromass, since mounting evidence indicatesthat this microbial necromass plays an important role in soil Cstorage. Importantly, microbial necromass has the uniqueability to provide information that integrates beyond a briefsnapshot of direct observations, which is crucial for acquiringa long-term perspective on the SOM dynamics. Unfortunately,suitable approaches for investigating microbial necromass arelimited; to date, the amino sugar biomarker analysis is themost often used, while other approaches have been used onlysporadically. Despite that the fact that we need an array ofnecromass analysis approaches which go beyond just aminosugars for cross validation, there also remain challenges withusing amino sugars.First , SOM is a heterogeneous mixture of compounds froma number of sources, and the presence of non-amino sugarcompounds may interfere with soil amino sugar determination.Following the widely-used aldononitrile acetate derivatizationGC-FID protocol (Guerrant and Moss, 1984; Zhang andAmelung, 1996; Liang et al., 2012), Liang et al. (2009a;2009b) detected signi ﬁcant interference by aminoglycosideantibiotics, compromising the utility of glucosamine andmuramic acid as reliable microbial necromass biomarkersunder certain conditions. Such issues serve as a cautionarynote regarding the potential limitations when biomarkersidenti ﬁed in pure laboratory cultures are applied to naturalenvironments. Second , the mixture of compounds thatcomprise SOM exists in a successive stage of degradation,and the decomposition stage of polymers consisting of aminosugar monomers can affect the ef ﬁciency of amino sugarextraction. The amino sugars that are extracted from soilsexist in situ as structural components of polymers, such as248 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalpeptidoglycan, which need to be broken down by hydrolysis torelease amino sugar monomers for determination (Amelung,2001). The amino sugar binding polymers of varying decom-position degrees differ in chemical structure and thusreactivity, leading to different ef ﬁciency of hydrolysis releaseof amino sugar monomers and their ultimate quanti ﬁcations.Indeed, whether the extracted biomarker compounds are fromyoung or older C pools could lead to inconsistent interpreta-tion when evaluating C stabilization based on the biomarkercompounds. For example, newly-synthesized amino acidswere found to decompose faster than originally-presentcounterparts (Zhang et al., 2015). Such difference in stabilityamong “old and new ”amino acids engenders concern and theneed to investigate whether this distinct C stabilization ofidenti ﬁable and identical organic molecules extracted fromsoils occurs with amino sugars as well. Third , as organicmatter is degraded in soils, it ubiquitously leads to a sequenceof molecular changes in chemical structure, accompanyingwith numerous varied products with embedded monomerstructures of interest (e.g., amino sugars). It is reasonable toexpect that some amino sugar-containing polymers haveundergone only slight changes (but that change happened toamino sugar chemical skeleton) during microbial attack andthus might escape the “analytical window ”of the amino sugaranalysis. In another words, slight changes in the structuralcomposition of a compound during biodegradation maysufﬁciently alter the structure so that its intrinsic targetcomponent is no longer recognizable at the molecular level,while intensive changes may not be necessary to destroy thetarget moiety of polymers to in ﬂuence biomarker determina-tion. Fourth , bias exists for the interpretations on microbialnecromass stability in soil based on the mere use of aminosugar compounds combined with stable C isotope technique.Uncertainties of residence time will happen to molecularcompounds and its inside “C,”when using isotopic C signatureto calculate the residence time of parent molecular com-pounds (i.e., amino sugars), which overestimates molecule ’sstability. In simple words, while the C from amino sugarcompounds might logically persist in soils for a longer while,during that time the structure of the amino sugar molecule islikely to change as the initial compound is broken down andthe C is reused in new components; in that instance, thelonger mean residence time of the inside “C”simply indicatesthat microbes repeatedly cycle the isotope C through theirown biomass, rather than long residence time of those C in thecompound.5 Closing remarksStudies on microbial necromass stabilization in soils areimperative to understand soil C stabilization, advance currentC cycling models, and help craft climate policy. The soil MCPconceptualizes a sequestration mechanism leading to thenew formed SOC via accumulating microbial anabolism-induced organic compounds belowground. I overviewed ourknowledge on the mechanism and appraisal of soil MCP, anddiscussed how microbial necromass gets shaped in soils andhow it gets evaluated. Our awareness on the mechanism andour capability on measuring microbial necromass are far to befully satisfactory, consequently leading to much uncertainty toproject C dynamics under global change and limited ability tomanage soil MCP for C sequestration that facilitatesecosystem services of concern. I am eager to call newinvestigations to obtain empirical data in soil microbialnecromass research area, which urgently awaits enrichedstudies and model development to relate to C cycle andclimate change.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank Drs. X. Zhang, T. Balser, J. Tiedje, J. Jastrow,E. DeLucia and M. Kästner for their supports along with the ideaevolution and career development of C. Liang. I would like tothank Drs. H. Gan and K. Wickings for discussions on soil fauna,Dr. M. Zhu for discussions biomarker chemistry, Drs. J. Schimeland J. Lehmann for offering general insightful comments, and Dr.X. Zhu for improving visual quality of the ﬁgures. This work wassupported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China(No. 31930070, 41977051). The grants or other support to C.Liang from the K. C. Wong Education Foundation of China (No.GJTD-2019-10) and the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation ofGermany are also acknowledged with gratitude.Competing ﬁnancial interestsThe author declares no competing ﬁnancial interests.ReferencesAmelung, W., 2001. Methods using amino sugars as markers formicrobial residues in soil, In: Lal, R., Kimble, J.M., Follett, R.F.,Stewart B.A., eds. Assessment Methods for Soil Carbon. CRC/Lewis Publishers, Boca Raton, FL, pp. 233 –270.Amelung, W., Kimble, J.M., Samson-Liebig, S., Follett, R.F., 2001.Restoration of microbial residues in soils of the conservationreserve program. Soil Science Society of America Journal 65,1704 –1709.Anderson, T.H., Joergensen, R.G., 1997. Relationship between SIRand FE estimates of microbial biomass C in deciduous forest soilsat different pH. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 29, 1033 –1042.Anthony, M.A., Crowther, T.W., Maynard, D.S., van den Hoogen, J.,Averill, C., 2020. Distinct assembly processes and microbialcommunities constrain soil organic carbon formation. One Earth 2,349–360.Appuhn, A., Joergensen, R., 2006. Microbial colonisation of roots as afunction of plant species. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 38, 1040 –1051.Bai, Z., Bodé, S., Huygens, D., Zhang, X., Boeckx, P., 2013. Kineticsof amino sugar formation from organic residues of different quality.Soil Biology & Biochemistry 57, 814 –821.Baldock, J.A., Skjemstad, J.O., 2000. Role of the soil matrix andChao Liang 249minerals in protecting natural organic materials against biologicalattack. Organic Geochemistry 31, 697 –710.Bardgett, R.D., van der Putten, W.H., 2014. Belowground biodiversityand ecosystem functioning. Nature 515, 505 –511.Bodé, S., Denef, K., Boeckx, P., 2009. Development and evaluation ofa high-performance liquid chromatography/isotope ratio massspectrometry methodology for d13C analyses of amino sugars insoil. Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 23, 2519 –2526.Böllmann, J., Elmer, M., Wöllecke, J., Raidl, S., Hüttl, R.F., 2010.Defensive strategies of soil fungi to prevent grazing by Folsomiacandida (Collembola). Pedobiologia 53, 107 –114.Boschker, H.T.S., Middelburg, J.J., 2002. Stable isotopes andbiomarkers in microbial ecology. FEMS Microbiology Ecology 40,85–95.Bradford, M.A., Wieder, W.R., Bonan, G.B., Fierer, N., Raymond, P.A.,Crowther, T.W., 2016. Managing uncertainty in soil carbon feed-backs to climate change. Nature Climate Change 6, 751 –758.Chantigny, M.H., Angers, D.A., Prevost, D., Vezina, L.P., Chalifour, F.P., 1997. Soil aggregation and fungal and cacterial biomass underannual and perennial cropping systems. Soil Science Society ofAmerica Journal 61, 262 –267.Cotrufo, M.F., Wallenstein, M.D., Boot, C.M., Denef, K., Paul, E., 2013.The Microbial Ef ﬁciency-Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) frameworkintegrates plant litter decomposition with soil organic matterstabilization: do labile plant inputs form stable soil organic matter?Global Change Biology 19, 988 –995.Craig, M.E., Turner, B.L., Liang, C., Clay, K., Johnson, D.J., Phillips, R.P., 2018. Tree mycorrhizal type predicts within-site variability in thestorage and distribution of soil organic matter. Global ChangeBiology 24, 3317 –3330.Creamer, C.A., Foster, A.L., Lawrence, C., McFarland, J., Schulz, M.,Waldrop, M.P., 2019. Mineralogy dictates the initial mechanism ofmicrobial necromass association. Geochimica et CosmochimicaActa 260, 161 –176.Crowther, T.W., Boddy, L., He ﬁn Jones, T., 2012. Functional andecological consequences of saprotrophic fungus-grazer interac-tions. ISME Journal 6, 1992 –2001.Crowther, T.W., Thomas, S.M., Maynard, D.S., Baldrian, P., Covey, K.,Frey, S.D., van Diepen, L.T., B radford, M.A., 2015. Bioticinteractions mediate soil microbial feedbacks to climate change.Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the UnitedStates of America 112, 7033 –7038.Dalal, R.C., 1998. Soil microbial biomass: What do the numbers reallymean? Australian Journal of Experimental Agriculture 38, 649 –665.Decock, C., Denef, K., Bod, S., Six, J., Boeckx, P., 2009. Criticalassessment of the applicability of gas chromatography-combus-tion-isotope ratio mass spectrometry to determine amino sugardynamics in soil. Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry23, 1201 –1211.Ding, X., Chen, S., Zhang, B., Liang, C., He, H., Horwath, W.R., 2019.Warming increases microbial residue contribution to soil organiccarbon in an alpine meadow. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 135, 13 –19.Ding, X., Han, X., Zhang, X., Qiao, Y., 2013. Effects of contrastingagricultural management on microbial residues in a Mollisol inChina. Soil & Tillage Research 130, 13 –17.Ding, X., Liang, C., Zhang, B., Yuan, Y., Han, X., 2015. Higher rates ofmanure application lead to greater accumulation of both fungal andbacterial residues in macroaggregates of a clay soil. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 84, 137 –146.Ding, X., Zhang, B., Lü, X., Wang, J., Horwath, W.R., 2017. Parentmaterial and conifer biome in ﬂuence microbial residue accumula-tion in forest soils. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 107, 1 –9.Dippold, M.A., Boesel, S., Gunina, A., Kuzyakov, Y., Glaser, B., 2014.Improved d13C analysis of amino sugars in soil by ion chromato-graphy-oxidation-isotope ratio mass spectrometry. Rapid Commu-nications in Mass Spectrometry 28, 569 –576.Dungait, J.A.J., Hopkins, D.W., Gregory, A.S., Whitmore, A.P., 2012.Soil organic matter turnover is governed by accessibility notrecalcitrance. Global Change Biology 18, 1781 –1796.Eisenhauer, N., Schlaghamerský, J., Reich, P.B., Frelich, L.E., 2011.The wave towards a new steady state: Effects of earthworminvasion on soil microbial functions. Biological Invasions 13, 2191 –2196.Eswaran, H., Van Den Berg, E., Reich, P., 1993. Organic carbon insoils of the world. Soil Science Society of America Journal 57,192–194.Fan, Z., Liang, C., 2015. Signi ﬁcance of microbial asynchronousanabolism to soil carbon dynamics driven by litter inputs. Scienti ﬁcReports 5, 9575.Fine, P.V.A., Miller, Z.J., Italo, M., Sebastian, I., Appel, H.M., Stevens,M.H.H., Ilari, S.K.R., Schultz, J.C., Coley, P.D., 2006. The growth-defense trade-off and habitat specialization by plants in Amazo-nian forests. Ecology 87, 150 –162.Foley, J.A., DeFries, R., Asner, G.P., Barford, C., Bonan, G.,Carpenter, S.R., Chapin, F.S., Coe, M.T., Daily, G.C., Gibbs, H.K., Helkowski, J.H., Holloway, T., Howard, E.A., Kucharik, C.J.,Monfreda, C., Patz, J.A., Prentice, I.C., Ramankutty, N., Snyder, P.K., 2005. Global consequences of land use. Science 309, 570 –574.Frey, S.D., Drijber, R., Smith, H., Melillo, J., 2008. Microbial biomass,functional capacity, and community structure after 12 years of soilwarming. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 40, 2904 –2907.Fu, S., Ferris, H., Plant, R., Brown, D., 2005. Does the positivefeedback effect of nematodes on the biomass and activity of theirbacteria prey vary with nematode species and population size?Soil Biology & Biochemistry 37, 1979 –1987.Gan, H., Liang, C., Wickings, K., 2018. Root herbivores acceleratecarbon inputs to soil and drive changes in biogeochemicalprocesses. Rhizosphere 6, 112 –115.Geyer, K.M., Kyker-Snowman, E., Grandy, A.S., Frey, S.D., 2016.Microbial carbon use ef ﬁciency: accounting for population, com-munity, and ecosystem-scale controls over the fate of metabolizedorganic matter. Biogeochemistry 127, 173 –188.Glaser, B., 2005. Compound-speci ﬁc stable-isotope ( d13C) analysis insoil science. Journal of Plant Nutrition and Soil Science 168, 633 –648.Glaser, B., Gross, S., 2005. Compound-speci ﬁcδ13C analysis ofindividual amino sugars –a tool to quantify timing and amount ofsoil microbial residue stabilization. Rapid Communications in Mass250 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalSpectrometry 19, 1409 –1416.Glaser, B., Millar, N., Blum, H., 2006. Sequestration and turnover ofbacterial- and fungal-derived carbon in a temperate grassland soilunder long-term elevated atmospheric pCO2. Global ChangeBiology 12, 1521 –1531.Glaser, B., Turrion, M.B., Alef, K., 2004. Amino sugars and muramicacid -biomarkers for soil microbial community structure analysis.Soil Biology & Biochemistry 36, 399 –407.Grandy, A.S., Wieder, W.R., Wickings, K., Kyker-Snowman, E., 2016.Beyond microbes: Are fauna the next frontier in soil biogeochem-ical models? Soil Biology & Biochemistry 102, 40 –44.Guerrant, G.O., Moss, C.W., 1984. Determination of monosacchar-ides as aldononitrile, O-methyloxime, alditol, and cyclitol acetatederivatives by gas chromatography. Analytical Chemistry 56, 633 –638.Guggenberger, G., Christensen, B.T., Zech, W., 1994. Land-useeffects on the composition of organic matter in particle-sizeseparates of soil: I. Lignin and carbohydrate signature. EuropeanJournal of Soil Science 45, 449 –458.Guggenberger, G., Frey, S.D., Six, J., Paustian, K., Elliott, E.T., 1999.Bacterial and fungal cell-wall residues in conventional and no-tillage agroecosystems. Soil Science Society of America Journal63, 1188 –1198.Hanlon, R.D.G., 1981. In ﬂuence of grazing by collembola on theactivity of senescent fungal colonies grown on media of differentnutrient concentration. Oikos 36, 362 –367.He, H., Xie, H., Zhang, X., 2006. A novel GC/MS technique to assess15N and13C incorporation into soil amino sugars. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 38, 1083 –1091.H e ,H . ,X i e ,H . ,Z h a n g ,X . ,W a n g ,Y . ,W u ,Y . ,2 0 0 5 .Ag a schromatographic/mass spectrometric method for tracing themicrobial conversion of glucose into amino sugars in soil. RapidCommunications in Mass Spectrometry 19, 1993 –1998.Hunter, M.D., 2001. Insect population dynamics meets ecosystemecology: Effects of herbivory on soil nutrient dynamics. Agricultural& Forest Entomology 3, 77 –84.Jastrow, J.D., Amonette, J.E., Bailey, V.L., 2007. Mechanismscontrolling soil carbon turnover and their potential application forenhancing carbon sequestration. Climatic Change 80, 5 –23.Jastrow, J.D., Miller, R.M., Matamala, R., Norby, R.J., Boutton, T.W.,Rice, C.W., Owensby, C.E., 2005. Elevated atmospheric carbondioxide increases soil carbon. Global Change Biology 11, 2057 –2064.Jia, J., Feng, X., He, J.S., He, H., Lin, L., Liu, Z., 2017. Comparingmicrobial carbon sequestration and priming in the subsoil versustopsoil of a Qinghai-Tibetan alpine grassland. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 104, 141 –151.Jiao, N., Herndl, G.J., Hansell, D.A., Benner, R., Kattner, G., Wilhelm,S.W., Kirchman, D.L., Weinbauer, M.G., Luo, T., Chen, F., Azam,F., 2010. Microbial production of recalcitrant dissolved organicmatter: Long-term carbon storage in the global ocean. NatureReviews. Microbiology 8, 593 –599.Jiao, N., Wang, H., Xu, G., Aricò, S., 2018. Blue carbon on the rise:Challenges and opportunities. National Science Review 5, 464 –468.Joergensen, R.G., 2018. Amino sugars as speci ﬁc indices for fungaland bacterial residues in soil. Biology and Fertility of Soils 54, 559 –568.Joergensen, R.G., Emmerling, C., 2006. Methods for evaluatinghuman impact on soil microorganisms based on their activity,biomass, and diversity in agricultural soils. Journal of PlantNutrition and Soil Science 169, 295 –309.Joergensen, R.G., Mäder, P., Fließbach, A., 2010. Long-term effectsof organic farming on fungal and bacterial residues in relation tomicrobial energy metabolism. Biology and Fertility of Soils 46,303–307.Jouquet, P., Dauber, J., Lagerlöf, J., Lavelle, P., Lepage, M., 2006. Soilinvertebrates as ecosystem engineers: Intended and accidentaleffects on soil and feedback loops. Applied Soil Ecology 32, 153 –164.Kallenbach, C.M., Frey, S.D., Grandy, A.S., 2016. Direct evidence formicrobial-derived soil organic matter formation and its ecophysio-logical controls. Nature Communications 7, 13630.Kallenbach, C.M., Grandy, A.S., Frey, S.D., Diefendorf, A.F., 2015.Microbial physiology and necromass regulate agricultural soilcarbon accumulation. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 91, 279 –290.Khan, K.S., Mack, R., Castillo, X., Kaiser, M., Joergensen, R.G., 2016.Microbial biomass, fungal and bacterial residues, and theirrelationships to the soil organic matter C/N/P/S ratios. Geoderma271, 115 –123.Kiem, R., Kogel-Knabner, I., 2003. Contribution of lignin andpolysaccharides to the refractory carbon pool in C-depleted arablesoils. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 35, 101 –118.Kivlin, S.N., Waring, B.G., Averill, C., Hawkes, C.V., 2013. Tradeoffs inmicrobial carbon allocation may mediate soil carbon storage infuture climates. Frontiers in Microbiology 4, 4.Knicker, H., 2000. Nature of organic nitrogen in ﬁne particle sizeseparates of sandy soils of highly industrialized areas as revealedby NMR spectroscopy. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 32, 241 –252.Knicker, H., 2004. Stabilization of N-compounds in soil and organic-matter-rich sediments –what is the difference? Marine Chemistry92, 167 –195.Kögel-Knabner, I., 2002. The macromolecular organic composition ofplant and microbial residues as inputs to soil organic matter. SoilBiology & Biochemistry 34, 139 –162.Kögel-Knabner, I., Guggenberger, G., Kleber, M., Kandeler, E.,Kalbitz, K., Scheu, S., Eusterhues, K., Leinweber, P., 2008.Organo-mineral associations in temperate soils: Integratingbiology, mineralogy, and organic matter chemistry. Journal ofPlant Nutrition and Soil Science 171, 61 –82.Kubicki, J.D., Schroeter, L.M., Itoh, M.J., Nguyen, B.N., Apitz, S.E.,1999. Attenuated total re ﬂectance Fourier-transform infraredspectroscopy of carboxylic acids adsorbed onto mineral surfaces.Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 63, 2709 –2725.Lauer, F., Kösters, R., Preez, C.C.D., Amelung, W., 2011. Microbialresidues as indicators of soil restoration in South Africansecondary pastures. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 43, 787 –794.Lavelle, P., 1997. Faunal Activities and Soil Processes: AdaptiveStrategies That Determine Ecosystem Function, In: Fitter, M.B.a.A.H., ed. Advances in Ecological Research. Academic Press, pp.93–132.Lechtenfeld, O.J., Hertkorn, N., Shen, Y., Witt, M., Benner, R., 2015.Chao Liang 251Marine sequestration of carbon in bacterial metabolites. NatureCommunications 6, 6711.Lee, Z.M., Schmidt, T.M., 2014. Bacterial growth ef ﬁciency varies insoils under different land management practices. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 69, 282 –290.Lehmann, J., Kinyangi, J., Solomon, D., 2007. Organic matterstabilization in soil microaggregates: implications from spatialheterogeneity of organic carbon contents and carbon forms.Biogeochemistry 85, 45 –57.Lehmann, J., Kleber, M., 2015. The contentious nature of soil organicmatter. Nature 528, 60 –68.Li, X., Fisk, M.C., Fahey, T.J., Bohlen, P.J., 2002. In ﬂuence ofearthworm invasion on soil microbial biomass and activity in anorthern hardwood forest. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 34, 1929 –1937.Liang, C., Amelung, W., Lehmann, J., Kästner, M., 2019. Quantitativeassessment of microbial necromass contribution to soil organicmatter. Global Change Biology 25, 3578 –3590.Liang, C., Balser, T.C., 2008. Preferential sequestration of microbialcarbon in subsoils of a glacial-landscape toposequence, DaneCounty, WI, USA. Geoderma 148, 113 –119.Liang, C., Balser, T.C., 2010. Mass spectrometric characterization ofamino sugar aldononitrile acetate derivatives used for isotopeenrichment assessment of microbial residues. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 42, 904 –909.Liang, C., Balser, T.C., 2011. Microbial production of recalcitrantorganic matter in global soils: Implications for productivity andclimate policy. Nature Reviews. Microbiology 9, 75.Liang, C., Balser, T.C., 2012. Warming and nitrogen deposition lessenmicrobial residue contribution to soil carbon pool. Nature Commu-nications 3, 1222.Liang, C., Cheng, G., Wixon, D., Balser, T., 2011. An AbsorbingMarkov Chain approach to understanding the microbial role in soilcarbon stabilization. Biogeochemistry 106, 303 –309.Liang, C., Duncan, D.S., Balser, T.C., Tiedje, J.M., Jackson, R.D.,2013. Soil microbial residue storage linked to soil legacy underbiofuel cropping systems in southern Wisconsin, USA. Soil Biology& Biochemistry 57, 939 –942.Liang, C., Gutknecht, J.L.M., Balser, T.C., 2015. Microbial lipid andamino sugar responses to long-term simulated global environ-mental changes in a California annual grassland. Frontiers inMicrobiology 6, 385.Liang, C., Pedersen, J.A., Balser, T.C., 2009a. Aminoglycosideantibiotics may interfere with microbial amino sugar analysis.Journal of Chromatography. A 1216, 5296 –5301.Liang, C., Read, H., Balser, T., 2009b. Reliability of muramic acid as abacterial biomarker is in ﬂuenced by methodological artifacts fromstreptomycin. Microbial Ecology 57, 494 –500.Liang, C., Read, H.W., Balser, T.C., 2012. GC-based detection ofaldonitrile acetate derivatized glucosamine and muramic acid formicrobial residue determination in soil samples: analytical protocoland derivative validation. Journal of Visualization Experiment 63,3767.Liang, C., Schimel, J.P., Jastrow, J.D., 2017. The importance ofanabolism in microbial control over soil carbon storage. NatureMicrobiology 2, 17105.Liang, C., Zhang, X., Balser, T.C., 2007. Net microbial amino sugaraccumulation process in soil as in ﬂuenced by different plantmaterial inputs. Biology and Fertility of Soils 44, 1 –7.Ludwig, M., Achtenhagen, J., Miltner, A., Eckhardt, K.U., Leinweber,P., Emmerling, C., Thiele-Bruhn, S., 2015. Microbial contribution toSOM quantity and quality in density fractions of temperate arablesoils. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 81, 311 –322.Ma, T., Zhu, S., Wang, Z., Chen, D., Dai, G., Feng, B., Su, X., Hu, H.,Li, K., Han, W., Liang, C., Bai, Y., Feng, X., 2018. Divergentaccumulation of microbial necromass and plant lignin componentsin grassland soils. Nature Communications 9, 3480.Malik, A.A., Martiny, J.B.H., Brodie, E.L., Martiny, A.C., Treseder, K.K.,Allison, S.D., 2020. De ﬁning trait-based microbial strategies withconsequences for soil carbon cycling under climate change. ISMEJournal 14, 1 –9.Malik, A.A., Roth, V.N., Hébert, M., Tremblay, L., Dittmar, T., Gleixner,G., 2016. Linking molecular size, composition and carbon turnoverof extractable soil microbial compounds. Soil Biology & Biochem-istry 100, 66 –73.Martins, M.R., Angers, D.A., Corá, J.E., 2012. Co-accumulation ofmicrobial residues and particulate organic matter in the surfacelayer of a no-till Oxisol under different crops. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 50, 208 –213.McCarthy, J.F., Ilavsky, J., Jastrow, J.D., Mayer, L.M., Perfect, E.,Zhuang, J., 2008. Protection of organic carbon in soil microag-gregates via restructuring of aggregate porosity and ﬁlling of poreswith accumulating organic matter. Geochimica et CosmochimicaActa 72, 4725 –4744.Mikutta, R., Kleber, M., Torn, M., Jahn, R., 2006. Stabilization of soilorganic matter: association with minerals or chemical recalci-trance? Biogeochemistry 77, 25 –56.Miltner, A., Bombach, P., Schmidt-Brücken, B., Kästner, M., 2012.SOM genesis: Microbial biomass as a signi ﬁcant source.Biogeochemistry 111, 41 –55.Monreal, C.M., Sultan, Y., Schnitzer, M., 2010. Soil organic matter innano-scale structures of a cultivated Black Chernozem. Geoderma159, 237 –242.Mooney, H.A., Canadell, J., Chapin, F.S. III, Ehleringer, J.H., Korner,C., McMurtrie, R.E., Parton, W.J., Pitelka, L.F., Schulze, E.D.,1999. Ecosystem physiology responses to global change, In:Walker, B., ed. The Terrestrial Biosphere and Global Change.Cambridge University Press, pp. 141 –189.Moritz, L.K., Liang, C., Wagai, R., Kitayama, K., Balser, T.C., 2009.Vertical distribution and pools of microbial residues in tropicalforest soils formed from distinct parent materials. Biogeochemistry92, 83 –94.Morrissey, E.M., Mchugh, T.A., Preteska, L., Hayer, M., Dijkstra, P.,Hungate, B.A., Schwartz, E., 2015. Dynamics of extracellular DNAdecomposition and bacterial community composition in soil. SoilBiology & Biochemistry 86, 42 –49.Nannipieri, P., Pedrazzini, F., Arcara, P.G., Piovanelli, C., 1979.Changes in amino-acids, enzyme-activities, and biomasses duringsoil microbial-growth. Soil Science 127, 26 –34.Niggemann, J., Schubert, C.J., 2006. Sources and fate of aminosugars in coastal Peruvian sediments. Geochimica et Cosmochi-mica Acta 70, 2229 –2237.252 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisalPoeplau, C., Helfrich, M., Dechow, R., Szoboszlay, M., Tebbe, C.C.,Don, A., Greiner, B., Zopf, D., Thumm, U., Korevaar, H., Geerts, R.,2019. Increased microbial anabolism contributes to soil carbonsequestration by mineral fertilization in temperate grasslands. SoilBiology & Biochemistry 130, 167 –176.Potthoff, M., Dyckmans, J., Flessa, H., Beese, F., Joergensen, R.,2008. Decomposition of maize residues after manipulation ofcolonization and its contribution to the soil microbial biomass.Biology and Fertility of Soils 44, 891 –895.Pronk, G.J., Heister, K., Kögel-Knabner, I., 2015. Amino sugars re ﬂectmicrobial residues as affected by clay mineral composition ofartiﬁcial soils. Organic Geochemistry 83 –84, 109 –113.Rillig, M.C., Wright, S.F., Nichols, K.A., Schmidt, W.F., Torn, M.S.,2001. Large contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to soilcarbon pools in tropical forest soils. Plant & Soil 233, 167 –177.Roller, B.R.K., Stoddard, S.F., Schmidt, T.M., 2016. Exploiting rRNAoperon copy number to investigate bacterial reproductive strate-gies. Nature Microbiology 1, 16160.Rumpel, C., Eusterhues, K., Kögel-Knabner, I., 2010. Non-cellulosicneutral sugar contribution to mineral associated organic matter intop- and subsoil horizons of two acid forest soils. Soil Biology &Biochemistry 42, 379 –382.Schimel, J., Schaeffer, S.M., 2012. Microbial control over carboncycling in soil. Frontiers in Microbiology 3, 1 –11.Schlautman, M.A., Morgan, J.J., 1994. Adsorption of aquatic humicsubstances on colloidal-size aluminum oxide particles: In ﬂuence ofsolution chemistry. Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta 58, 4293 –4303.Schmidt, M.W.I., Torn, M.S., Abiven, S., Dittmar, T., Guggenberger, G.,Janssens, I.A., Kleber, M., Kogel-Knabner, I., Lehmann, J.,Manning, D.A.C., Nannipieri, P., Rasse, D.P., Weiner, S., Trum-bore, S.E., 2011. Persistence of soil organic matter as anecosystem property. Nature 478, 49 –56.Shao, P., Liang, C., Lynch, L., Xie, H., Bao, X., 2019. Reforestationaccelerates soil organic carbon accumulation: Evidence frommicrobial biomarkers. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 131, 182 –190.Simpson, A.J., Simpson, M.J., Smith, E., Kelleher, B.P., 2007.Microbially derived inputs to soil organic matter: Are currentestimates too low? Environmental Science & Technology 41,8070 –8076.Sokol, N.W., Bradford, M.A., 2019. Microbial formation of stable soilcarbon is more ef ﬁcient from belowground than abovegroundinput. Nature Geoscience 12, 46 –53.Sokol, N.W., Sanderman, J., Bradford, M.A., 2019. Pathways ofmineral-associated soil organic matter formation: Integrating therole of plant carbon source, chemistry, and point of entry. GlobalChange Biology 25, 12 –24.Sollins, P., Homann, P., Caldwell, B.A., 1996. Stabilization anddestabilization of soil organic matter: Mechanisms and controls.Geoderma 74, 65 –105.Solomon, D., Lehmann, J., Zech, W., 2001. Land use effects on aminosugar signature of chromic Luvisol in the semi-arid part of northernTanzania. Biology and Fertility of Soils 33, 33 –40.Soong, J.L., Vandegehuchte, M.L., Horton, A.J., Nielsen, U.N., Denef,K., Shaw, E.A., Tomasel, C.M.D., Parton, W., Wall, D.H., Cotrufo,M.F., 2016. Soil microarthropods support ecosystem productivityand soil C accrual: Evidence from a litter decomposition study inthe tallgrass prairie. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 92, 230 –238.Stevenson, F., 1994. Humus Chemistry: Genesis, Composition,Reactions. 2nd ed. John Wiley & Sons, New York.Stockmann, U., Adams, M.A., Crawford, J.W., Field, D.J., Hena-kaarchchi, N., Jenkins, M., Minasny, B., McBratney, A.B.,Courcelles, V.R., Singh, K., Wheeler, I., Abbott, L., Angers, D.A.,Baldock, J., Bird, M., Brookes, P.C., Chenu, C., Jastrow, J.D., Lal,R., Lehmann, J., O ’Donnell, A.G., Parton, W.J., Whitehead, D.,Zimmermann, M., 2013. The knowns, known unknowns andunknowns of sequestration of soil organic carbon. Agriculture,Ecosystems & Environment 164, 80 –99.Swift, R.G., 2001. Sequestration of carbon by soil. Soil Science 166,858–871.Tao, W., Zhaomo, T., Per, B., Anders, T., Per, P., 2017. Mineralsurface-reactive metabolites secreted during fungal decomposi-tion contribute to the formation of soil organic matter. Environ-mental Microbiology 19, 5117 –5129.van Groenigen, K.J., Six, J., Harris, D., Van Kessel, C., 2007. ElevatedCO2does not favor a fungal decomposition pathway. Soil Biology& Biochemistry 39, 2168 –2172.van Groenigen, K.J., Six, J., Hungate, B.A., de Graaff, M.A., vanBreemen, N., van Kessel, C., 2006. Element interactions limit soilcarbon storage. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciencesof the United States of America 103, 6571 –6574.von Lützow, M., Kögel-Knabner, I., Ekschmitt, K., Matzner, E.,Guggenberger, G., Marschner, B., Flessa, H., 2006. Stabilizationof organic matter in temperate soils: Mechanisms and theirrelevance under different soil conditions -a review. EuropeanJournal of Soil Science 57, 426 –445.Wardle, D.A., 1992. A comparative assessment of factors whichinﬂuence microbial biomass carbon and nitrogen levels in soil.Biological Reviews of the Cambridge Philosophical Society 67,321–358.Whitman, W.B., Coleman, D.C., Wiebe, W.J., 1998. Prokaryotes: Theunseen majority. Proceedings of the National Academy ofSciences of the United States of America 95, 6578 –6583.Wilkinson, M.T., Richards, P.J., Humphreys, G.S., 2009. Breakingground: Pedological, geological, and ecological implications of soilbioturbation. Earth-Science Reviews 97, 257 –272.Wolters, V., 2000. Invertebrate control of soil organic matter stability.Biology and Fertility of Soils 31, 1 –19.Xu, X., Thornton, P.E., Post, W.M., 2013. A global analysis of soilmicrobial biomass carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus in terrestrialecosystems. Global Ecology and Biogeography 22, 737 –749.Zhang, B., Drury, C.F., Yang, X., Reynolds, W.D., Zhang, X., 2014.Effects of long-term and recently imposed tillage on the concen-tration and composition of amino sugars in a clay loam soil inOntario, Canada. Soil & Tillage Research 135, 9 –17.Zhang, B., Liang, C., He, H., Zhang, X., 2013. Variations in soilmicrobial communities and residues along an altitude gradient onthe Northern Slope of Changbai Mountain, China. PLoS One 8,e66184.Zhang, W., Liang, C., Kao-Knif ﬁn, J., He, H., Xie, H., Zhang, H.,Zhang, X., 2015. Differentiating the mineralization dynamics of theoriginally present and newly synthesized amino acids in soilChao Liang 253amended with available carbon and nitrogen substrates. SoilBiology & Biochemistry 85, 162 –169.Zhang, X., Amelung, W., 1996. Gas chromatographic determination ofmuramic acid, glucosamine, mannosamine, and galactosamine insoils. Soil Biology & Biochemistry 28, 1201 –1206.Zhang, X., Amelung, W., Yuan, Y., Samson-Liebig, S., Brown, L.,Zech, W., 1999. Land-use effects on amino sugars in particle sizefractions of an Argiudoll. Applied Soil Ecology 11, 271 –275.Zhu, X., Liang, C., Masters, M.D., Kantola, I.B., DeLucia, E.H., 2018.The impacts of four potential bioenergy crops on soil carbondynamics as shown by biomarker analyses and DRIFT spectro-scopy. Global Change Biology. Bioenergy 10, 489 –500.Zhu, X., Xie, H., Masters, M.D., Luo, Y., Zhang, X., Liang, C., 2020.Microbial trade-off in soil organic carbon storage in a no-tillcontinuous corn agroecosystem. European Journal of Soil Biology96, 103146.254 Soil microbial carbon pump: Mechanism and appraisal