Citation: Shah, A.M.; Khan, I.M.;Shah, T.I.; Bangroo, S.A.; Kirmani,N.A.; Nazir, S.; Malik, A.R.; Aezum,A.M.; Mir, Y.H.; Hilal, A.; et al. SoilMicrobiome: A Treasure Trove forSoil Health Sustainability underChanging Climate. Land 2022 ,11,1887. https://doi.org/10.3390/land11111887Academic Editor: KrishJayachandranReceived: 31 August 2022Accepted: 13 October 2022Published: 25 October 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).landReviewSoil Microbiome: A Treasure Trove for Soil HealthSustainability under Changing ClimateAanisa Manzoor Shah1, Inayat Mustafa Khan1, Tajamul Islam Shah2, Shabir Ahmed Bangroo2,Nayar Afaq Kirmani2, Shaista Nazir2, Abdul Raouf Malik3, Aziz Mujtaba Aezum2, Yasir Hanif Mir1,Aatira Hilal2and Asim Biswas4,*1Division of Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences andTechnology-Kashmir, Wadura 193201, Jammu and Kashmir, India2Division of Soil Science, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology-Kashmir,Shalimar 190025, Jammu and Kashmir, India3Division of Fruit Science, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology-Kashmir,Shalimar 190025, Jammu and Kashmir, India4School of Environmental Sciences, University of Guelph, 50 Stone Road East, Guelph, ON N1G2W1, Canada*Correspondence: biswas@uoguelph.caAbstract: Climate change imprints on soil are projected primarily through the changes in soil moistureand surge in soil temperature and CO 2levels in response to climate change and is anticipated to havevarying impacts on soil characteristics and processes that are instrumental in the restoration of soilfertility as well as productivity. Climate change encompasses a major concern of sharing its impact onthe stability and functionality of soil microbiome and is characterized by one or more chief stabilitymetrics encircling resistance, resilience, and functional redundancy. Nevertheless, the explorationsover the past years have unveiled the potential of microbial interventions in the regeneration of soilsor assurance of perked-up resilience to crops. The strategies involved therein encompass harnessingthe native capability of soil microbes for carbon sequestration, phyto-stimulation, bio fertilization,rhizo-mediation, biocontrol of plant pathogens, enzyme-mediated breakdown, antibiosis, promptingof anti-oxidative defense mechanism, exudation of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and inducedsystemic resistance (ISR) response in the host plant. However, the short storage and shelf-life ofmicrobe-based formulations stay a signiﬁcant constraint and rigorous efforts are necessary to appraisetheir additive impact on crop growth under changing climate scenarios.Keywords: climate change; soil health; soil microbiome; agricultural sustainability; soil ecosystem1. IntroductionThe call for enhancing agricultural production holds paramount prominence to fosterthe ever-increasing count of mouths. The escalating population demands a sustained pro-duction of food while considering food safety along with environmental sustainability [ 1].The accomplishment of this target is set alongside a backdrop of prevalent and creepingland degradation [ 2,3] and rising challenges given changing climate [ 4]. Soil serves as apotential cradle of ecosystem services that are instrumental in nourishing the demandsof the rising population [ 5,6]. However, the exploitation of soil intensively to produceample food through an approach that does not add to climate change and environmentalimpairment remains a query to date [ 7]. In addition, the current picture of climate andallied disasters pose a thorough impact on biotic as well as abiotic factors administratingthe agro ecosystem functions, thereby, negotiating global food security [ 8,9]. Owing tothis perspective, a dire need for a new green revolution is mandatory in realizing foodsecurity, where novel approaches and concepts are desired to attain further sustainableagricultural development.Land 2022 ,11, 1887. https://doi.org/10.3390/land11111887 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/landLand 2022 ,11, 1887 2 of 20Agriculture poses a robust impression on atmospheric emissions, contributing to14% of the global greenhouse gases (GHG) such as nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, andmethane [ 10], counting it as a weighty contributor to anthropogenic climate change [ 11,12].In addition, the present-day rigorous agricultural practices, encircling land clearing, undueand ineffective exploitation of fertilizers and irrigation in hand with the consumptionof fossil fuels for agricultural machinery authorize a considerably high carbon footprint,owing to it to the perpetual release of elevated volumes of greenhouse gases, exhibitinglevels analogous to those emitted by home heating, transportation, and production ofenergy [ 13,14]. Although climate change is a steady course encompassing comparativelyminor ﬂuctuations in temperature and precipitation over extended periods, nonethelessthe concerned slow changes in climate pose an impact on different soil processes, notablythose connected to soil fertility. Therefore, the current agriculture-oriented approachesdemand an address of two massive challenges (adaptation and mitigation): Battling theconsequences of climate change and evolving sustainable approaches, afﬁliated with theoffsetting of negative impacts on yields and food quality. This box may be grasped withmore proﬁcient and judicious use of the natural resource base in conjunction with thedepreciation of wastes and pollutants [15].Soil ecosystems are extremely multifarious and are sensitive to a variety of landscape-scale agitations that deﬁne the retention or release of soil carbon into the atmosphere [ 16].The ability of soil to furnish ecosystem services is governed by the proﬁciency of thesoil to accomplish the inherent physical, chemical, as well as biological processes underspeciﬁc topographical and climatic circumstances and, is designated by the bloomingconcept of “soil health” [ 17]. The resolution to address grave challenges of food securityhas time and again directed to agricultural approaches that bypass the multifunctionaledge of soils along with soil health, which aftermaths result in soil degradation, a fall inthe provision of ecosystem services, and sooner or later, crop failures [ 18]. Exposure tosynthetic fertilizers and pesticides results in the contamination of soil ecosystems exhibitingreduced soil biodiversity, impaired fertility, and eventually, deteriorated soil health throughobstruction of organic matter breakdown and altered nutrient cycling [ 19]. Accordingly,sustained nutrient cycling, as well as management of soil health, grow as a challenge viathe adoption of conventional farming practices. To address these critical complications, soil-dwelling microbes with plant-growth-promoting properties offer an impending substitutefor chemical fertilizers [ 20]. Furthermore, the long-term use of these potentially valuablemicrobes equates to the hammer and nails of green agricultural development.Soil microorganisms are chieﬂy accountable for soil organic carbon (SOC) and nutrientcycling, possessing an imperative part in climate feedback, counting production as well asconsumption of GHGs such as CH 4, CO 2, and N 2O. Soil microbiome in addition to theirakin roles governs the productivity of different agro ecosystems [ 21]. The exploitation ofmicrobes intends for recycling crop residues along with the improvisation of soil health,comprising the vibrant approach for the sustainable production of energy and food. It is pre-dicted that the vast bulk (90 percent) of microbial diversity has yet to be unveiled and thispioneering diversity parallels the treasure troves of soil health sustainability. Nevertheless,identifying the principle elements for ecosystem driving stands as one of the perplexingchores, and manipulation of such drivers to yield apt proﬁts is even more demanding [ 22].Additionally, the introduction of more comprehensive and sophisticated extravagances ofchange possessing mysterious consequences on the permanence and resilience of the soilmicrobiome through changing climate has been marked [ 23]. Therefore, better compre-hension of microbial potentials that convene ecosystem resilience to changing climate isdesirable to foresee and manage the response of ecosystem services to climate change.2. Impact of Climate Change on Soil HealthClimate change according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)convention deﬁnes any alteration in climate over time, accrediting it to the natural vari-ability or consequences of anthropogenic activity [ 24]. The climate change imprints on soilLand 2022 ,11, 1887 3 of 20remain a slow complex process on one hand as soils are not only inﬂuenced by climatechange directly (for instance impact of temperature on the decomposition of soil organicmatter and indirectly via soil moisture ﬂuctuations) and also serve as a source of greenhousegases (GHGs), thereby contributing to the gases accountable for changing climate [ 25].The losses on soil carbon will moreover disturb other soil characteristics such as poor soilstructure, less aggregate stability, water retention capacity, accessibility of nutrients, anderosion [ 26]. In addition, the elevated temperatures are accounted for the accelerated loss ofsoil carbon. However, these imprints could be mitigated by increased release of nutrients,which would result in higher plant productivity when compared to litter inputs. Although,elevated temperatures promote the decomposition of soil organic matter and upsurge theloss of SOM [ 24]. Increased precipitation could anticipate ampliﬁcation in the formationof peat and methane emissions, whereas zones receiving decreased precipitation amountsmight experience loss of CO 2, peat along with the augmented moisture discrepancy forarable crops as well as forest soils, thereby agitating the scavenging patterns, survival, andreproduction of soil invertebrates [ 27]. The climate change-driven droughts are markedto enhance the probability of shrink-swell in clay soils and uproar to constructions, never-theless, the elevated temperatures might also aggravate the foundations through chemicalattack to foundations, exhibiting a potential of an ampliﬁed generation of leachate as wellas discharge of landﬁll gases [ 28]. The fate of pesticides in the soil might be intricatelygoverned by the interactions existing between the environment and pesticides, disease,and pest incidence under changing climate scenarios, for instance, elevated temperatureshasten the degradation of soils, drier climates promote the persistence of pesticides, andincreased precipitation elevates mass ﬂow as well as downward movements [29].Climate change poses a direct as well as indirect impact on soil processes, where soilmoisture portrays an illustrious part. It regulates the accessibility of water and nutrientsto plants, governs soil thermal regimes, and drives the biological activity of soil [ 30].Elevated temperature disrupts the soil structure, reducing the water retention capacityof soil and dissociating soil fractions which deprives the soil of its productivity [ 31]. Theclimate change tempted consequences to lead to rapid mineralogical as well as chemicalchanges in soil comprising steady dehydration of goethite to haematite in response toelevated temperatures or severe drying, loss of nutrient cations in regions where leachingincreases, and salinization where net uphill water drive follows, owing to it to ampliﬁedevapotranspiration rate or decline in rainfall or water supplication through irrigation [ 32].Low pH primes deﬁciency of plant nutrients and renders them inaccessible except Al andMn to plant use while at high pH, the solubility of various metals as well as trace elementsare diminished with the inclusion of essential nutrients for plants, for instance, Fe, Mn, Cuor Zn [ 33]. In addition, the climate change scenarios wave their direct impact on the fate ofnoxious pollutants, especially on their mobility and ﬂux in environmental compartments ofthe atmosphere, water, soil, sediment, and biota [34]. The extreme climatic events perturbtransport pathways of contaminants, including volatilization, precipitation, surface runoff,degradation, and transformation [ 35]. Elevated temperatures tend to increase the metalconcentration of crops on account of accelerated evapotranspiration, more rapid organicmatter breakdown in soil, faster release from soil particles and diffusion to roots, or somecombination of several factors [ 36]. Increased precipitation on account of changing climateresults in the mobilization of toxic chemicals (e.g., heavy metals, pesticides) stored in thesoil or the remobilization of chemicals adsorbed on the soil [ 37]. Furthermore, surfacerunoff and erosion in debt of heightened intensity and frequency of rainfall can upsurgethe transport of contaminants outside the parental soils [35].Climate change imposes both direct and indirect impacts on soil microbial activitythat furnish positive feedback to the emission of atmospheric greenhouse gases and pay toglobal warming. Temperature, precipitation, and extreme climatic events partake directimprints on soil microbes and greenhouse gas production, while indirect effects result fromclimate-driven changes in plant productivity and diversity, which alter soil physicochemicalconditions, carbon supply to the soil, and the structure and activity of microbial communi-Land 2022 ,11, 1887 4 of 20ties involved in decomposition processes and carbon release from soil [ 38]. Generalizingsoil microbiome is extremely perplexing, in debt of its reliance on biotic and abiotic factors,for instance, pH, soil structure, moisture, aeration, vegetation type, and microbe-microbeinteraction. Plants themselves perform no minor part in determining the soil microbiome,as they aid in shaping the community structure by luring their most-desired players [ 39].The photosynthates synthesized by plants are shared with the below-deck squad throughthe roots (exudates), initiating the microbiome to shift in tandem with exudates, varyingby minute changes in geography, for instance, radial distance encompassing outwardsof root or position on the root per se, apart from abiotic factors such as temperature, soilmoisture and soil structure [ 40]. Climate change encompasses a major concern partaking inits impact on the stability and functionality of soil microbiome [ 41,42]. Community stabilityis characterized by one or more chief stability metrics encircling: resistance (remaining un-altered in response to perturbations), resilience (retrieval to a steady state), and functionalredundancy (Figure 1) (maintenance of functional proﬁles despite taxonomic shifts) [ 42].The response of micro-organisms to the anticipated changes in climate such as elevatedcarbon-di-oxide levels, raised temperatures, ampliﬁed droughts, erratic precipitation, andelevated ﬁre frequency in conjunction with the compounding turbulences that befall as aresult of a combination of climate change impacts [ 43] promote our comprehension of howmicrobial community structure and their afﬁliated ecosystem services are subject to thepooled pressures of climate change (Figure 1) and how these microbes aid in sustenance ofsoil health under such circumstances would offer a platform for shielding, adapting andmitigating the ecosystem resilience [44].Land  2022 , 11, 1887 4 of 21  Climate change imposes both direct and indirect impacts on soil microbial activity that furnish positive feedback to the emis sion of atmospheric greenhouse gases and pay to global warming. Temperature, precipitation,  and extreme climatic events partake direct imprints on soil microbes and greenhouse gas production, while indirect effects result from climate-driven changes in plant producti vity and diversity, which alter soil physico-chemical conditions, carbon supply to the soil , and the structure and activity of microbial communities involved in decomposition processes and carbon release from soil [38]. Gen-eralizing soil microbiome is extremely perplexing, in debt of its reliance on biotic and abi-otic factors, for instance, pH, soil structure,  moisture, aeration, vegetation type, and mi-crobe-microbe interaction. Plants themselves perform no minor part in determining the soil microbiome, as they aid in shaping the community structure by luring their most-desired players [39]. The photosynthates synthesized by plants are shared with the below-deck squad through the roots (exudates), initiati ng the microbiome to shift in tandem with exudates, varying by minute changes in geography, for instance, radial distance encom-passing outwards of root or position on the r oot per se, apart from abiotic factors such as temperature, soil moisture and soil structure [40]. Climate change encompasses a major concern partaking in its impact on the stability and functionality of soil microbiome [41,42]. Community stability is characterized by one or more chief stability metrics encir-cling: resistance (remaining unaltered in resp onse to perturbations), resilience (retrieval to a steady state), and functional redundancy (Figure 1) (maintenance of functional pro-files despite taxonomic shifts) [42]. The resp onse of micro-organisms to the anticipated changes in climate such as elevated carbon-d i-oxide levels, raised temperatures, amplified droughts, erratic precipitation, and elevated fire frequency in conjunction with the com-pounding turbulences that befall as a result of a combination of climate change impacts [43] promote our comprehension of how micr obial community structure and their affili-ated ecosystem services are subject to the pooled pressures of climate change (Figure 1) and how these microbes aid in sustenance of soil health under such circumstances would offer a platform for shielding, adapting an d mitigating the ecosystem resilience [44].   Figure 1. Soil Microbial Responses to Changing climate. 2.1. Effect of Elevated Temperatures Although climate, age of soil, parent material, texture, type of vegetation, topogra-phy, and soil community composition all influence soils’ ability to sequester carbon, it is the microbial decomposers that eventually go vern the rate-determining steps in the pro-cess of decomposition [45]. Warming causes physiological changes in decomposers, influ-encing CO2 efflux from soil [46]. The physiologica l alterations of micro-organisms in re-sponse to elevated temperatures embrace variations in cell membrane lipid composition to condense the fluidity of the membrane an d the manifestation of heat shock proteins Figure 1. Soil Microbial Responses to Changing climate.2.1. Effect of Elevated TemperaturesAlthough climate, age of soil, parent material, texture, type of vegetation, topography,and soil community composition all inﬂuence soils’ ability to sequester carbon, it is themicrobial decomposers that eventually govern the rate-determining steps in the process ofdecomposition [ 45]. Warming causes physiological changes in decomposers, inﬂuencingCO 2efﬂux from soil [ 46]. The physiological alterations of micro-organisms in response toelevated temperatures embrace variations in cell membrane lipid composition to condensethe ﬂuidity of the membrane and the manifestation of heat shock proteins [ 16]. Temperaturerises are likely to hasten fungal decomposition, resulting in increased carbon dioxideemissions from soil. Higher temperatures, on the other hand, raise soil nitrogen levels,slowing the rate of fungal decomposition. Increased temperatures can affect nitriﬁcationefﬁciency directly or indirectly by manipulating the metabolic activities of microbes [ 47,48]or modifying soil characteristics such as levels of soil oxygen and substrate accessibility [ 49].Land 2022 ,11, 1887 5 of 20The warming experiment at Harvard Forest marked an early depletion of labile carbonin the soil, with subsequent degradation of relatively recalcitrant carbon pools [ 50]. Long-term warming stemmed from soil organic carbon depletion and a corresponding decline inmicrobial biomass, implying that long-term warming has negative consequences for thesustainability of soil [ 50]. Reduced availability of carbon was allied with a fall in fungalabundance and Actinobacteria, as well as an increase in the abundance of oligotrophicbacteria [ 51], underpinning the notion that microbial behaviors might be concomitant toecosystem swings in respiration. Warming-induced changes in the composition of themicrobial community can also lead to a depletion of the available substrate [ 46]. This issigniﬁcant because speciﬁc microorganisms regulate ecosystem functions such as methano-genesis, nitrogen ﬁxation, nitriﬁcation, and denitriﬁcation. Subsequently, shifts in theircomparative abundances pose a direct impression on the rate of the aforesaid processes [ 52].2.2. Effect of Elevated CO 2LevelsThe effects pertaining to elevated levels of CO 2(eCO 2) on soil ecosystems have beenexplored via free-air CO 2enrichment (FACE) trials, the illuminating response of soil micro-organisms to growing CO 2. However, there have been mixed consequences in terms ofmicrobial composition and function in relation to carbon and nitrogen cycling [ 16]. Ele-vated concentrations of CO 2reﬂected a strong impact on the metabolic active microbiomeprevalent in rhizospheric soil, in comparison to bulk soil microbiome which almost stayedunaffected [ 53]. Microbial genes instrumental in the decomposition of carbon, nitrogenﬁxation, carbon ﬁxation, mineralization of nitrogen, denitriﬁcation, and methanogenesisare all enhanced in arid grasslands subjected to eCO 2[54]. The augmented rhizodepositionin reaction to eCO 2potentially primes microbial decomposition of prevailing soil organiccarbon [ 55]. It is challenging to detach the compounding imprints of eCO 2from warmingas with the enhancement of soil moisture because of eCO 2, there could be an upsurge inwarming effects that in turn dry the soil. Although total fungal abundance increased in theAustralian grassland study, when eCO 2was combined with warming, total fungal abun-dance decreased [ 56]. Therefore, comprehension of how ﬂuctuations in CO 2concentrationinterrelate to other vital variables of the environment such as temperature, precipitation,and nutrients is acute for predicting microbiome responses in soil ecosystems.2.3. Effect of DroughtDrought is projected to exist as a foremost concern of forthcoming climate changewith implications on microbial community structure and their allied activities, crop growth,development, production of yield as well as quality [ 57,58]. Drought is expected to causea decline in microbial functions, which are critical for ecosystem sustainability [ 59]. Thenegative bearing of drought on microbes prevalent in soil direct to a decline in enzymeactivity reduced nutrient cycling (such as carbon, nitrogen, nitrogen) and fertility of thesoil and in turn crop productivity, speciﬁcally in drought-prone crops, and accordinglyeconomic gains [ 60]. Drought stress, especially severe and long-term drought stress, disruptthe accessibility of soil microbiota to plant roots, affecting their microbiome compositionand resulting in root structure changes, the release of root exudates, and nutrient disrup-tion [ 61]. During drought, the microbiome of plant roots changes, favoring Actinobacteriaand many other Gram-positive species over the Gram-negative taxa that predominate inthe rhizosphere [ 62]. Network examination in mesocosms experiments [ 63] and temporalﬁeld experimentations [ 64] illustrated that in grasslands bacteria are more prone to droughtin comparison to fungi. Under water-scarce conditions, fungi may thus contribute sub-stantially to upkeep the carbon as well as nitrogen cycling [ 65]. In addition, under driersoil conditions and microbial dispersion grow into more constrained ones in physicallysecured pores of soil [ 66,67], where fungal hyphae may aid in bridging the spatially distinctresources [ 68], assisting the bulk microbiome too. As a result, it is critical to learn moreabout how inter-kingdom interactions inﬂuence community responses to drought stress.Land 2022 ,11, 1887 6 of 202.4. Effect of Increased PrecipitationClimate change is expected to alter rainfall in northern regions to enhanced precipi-tation from snow, ensuing in a condensed snow pack and heightened cycles of freezing-thawing [ 69]. With the increment in soil moisture, soil pores become saturated with waterand develop anaerobic environments, hence offering a ripe platform for denitriﬁcationand methanogenesis with potential emissions of N 2O and CH 4, respectively. Alteringprecipitation patterns can cause differences in moisture and vegetation, resulting in con-trasting microbial community responses. This holds a considerable place as rainfall-drivenﬂuxes are a key determinant of whether ecosystems act as CO 2sources or sink in theatmosphere [ 70]. Rainfall is, in fact, critical in shaping the distribution of soil moistureand respiratory activity [ 71]. Previous studies have noted a reduction in soil fungal com-munities in response to submergence, by creating unfavorable circumstances for fungalcommunities although stimulating anaerobic bacteria and therefore growing anaerobicbacterial soil communities [ 72]. Microbial activity was displayed to drop during prolongedphases of ﬂooding due to the depletion of resources, reﬂecting a ‘boom and bust’ state [ 73].The eventual climate imprints of mounting levels of seawater will be determined by thedynamics of microbial communities in soil, as well as soil organic carbon availability andelectron acceptors, which regulate the equilibrium amid storage of carbon and nutrients inhand with greenhouse gas release.3. Climate Change Adaptation and Soil MicrobiomeSoil microbial communities ﬂuctuate invariably in response to changing resourceaccessibility. Generally, the shifts in environmental circumstances consequently drive toeither adaptation, dormancy, or death of prevalent micro-organisms. The capability ofmicrobes to acclimatize is governed by the degree of agitation and time required to mountup mutations, regulation of transcription, and translation of genes in hand with geneaccumulation via horizontal gene transfer. Soil ecosystems being heterogeneous dynamicsystems drive resident microbes to evolve with phenotypic strategies in view of copingwith ﬂuctuating environmental circumstances. The acclimatization of soil microbes toclimate change-induced stresses ensures the altered allocation of resource base right fromgrowth to survival tactics [ 74]. Yet the fundamental mechanism of microbes that govern theresponse to changing climate in the ecosystem remains in its infancy. Therefore, unravelingthe physicochemical changes that affect the metabolism and physiology of the prevalentsoil microbiome remains a prime sphere of interest regarding the mitigation of atmosphericGHG emissions.The explorations over the past years have unraveled the potential of microbial inter-ventions in the regeneration of soils or assurance of perked-up resilience to crops. Thestrategies engulfed therein encompass harnessing the native capability of soil microbes tosequester carbon, ensuring the part of autotrophic organisms such as algae given transform-ing carbon into lipids, manipulation of adenosine tri-phosphate for countless proﬁciency ofcarbon sequestration, and regulating different metabolic means in bacteria to orient geneediting of photosynthetic bacteria. The direct mechanisms executed by the respective soilmicrobes encircle phyto-stimulation [ 75], bio fertilization [ 76], rhizo-mediation, or regula-tion of stress [ 77]. Indirect mechanisms primarily exist as biocontrol of plant pathogensvia competition for soil nutrients, enzyme-mediated breakdown, antibiosis [ 78], prompt-ing of anti-oxidative defense mechanism [ 79], exudation of volatile organic compounds(VOCs) [ 80], and induced systemic resistance (ISR) response in the host plant [ 81] (Figure 2).However, the utility and vigor of soil microbiome to restore soils under changing climaterely on inherent properties of soil along with environmental and agronomic managementaspects. Nutrient accessibility, soil reaction, hydrology, temperature, plant genotype, andaspects of cultural management comprise the chief drivers governing the persistence andfunction of plant growth-promoting microbes in the soil [82,83].Land 2022 ,11, 1887 7 of 20Land  2022 , 11, 1887 7 of 21  plant pathogens via competition for soil nutr ients, enzyme-mediated breakdown, antibi-osis [78], prompting of anti-oxidative defense mechanism [79], exudation of volatile or-ganic compounds (VOCs) [80], an d induced systemic resistance (ISR) response in the host plant [81] (Figure 2). However, the utility an d vigor of soil microbiome to restore soils under changing climate rely on inherent prop erties of soil along with environmental and agronomic management aspects. Nutrient access ibility, soil reaction, hydrology, temper-ature, plant genotype, and aspects of cultural management comprise the chief drivers gov-erning the persistence and function of pl ant growth-promoting microbes in the soil [82,83].   Figure 2. Climate change adaptation and soil microbiome. 3.1. Salinization Highly detrimental salinity stress shakes nearly all facets concerning the physiology and biochemistry of plants and consequently adds to a noticeable fall in the yield and productivity of crops [84]. Phytohormones constitute exemplary plant regulators and play their part in the growth and development of crops [85]. These organic constituents serve as signaling molecules in reaction to different environmental aspects [86]. For illustration, auxin accounts for the stimulation of adventit ious root growth and enhancement of cell proliferation in addition to delaying plant-ag ing processes have been accredited to cyto-kinin hormone [87]. Plants under salinity stress tend to increase the production of the hor-mone ABA and ethylene, in contrast to IAA, cytokinin, salicylic acid (SA), and jasmonic acid (JA), whose production is reduced [88]. Meager exudation or deprivation of hor-mones might retard plant growth under stre ssed environments. On contrary, augmenting of hormones tends to advance stress tolera nce [89]. Halo-tolerant and halophilic micro-organisms adapt to such circumstances thro ugh the production of novel enzymes exhib-iting polyextremophilic structures that oper ate among salinity conditions, for instance, celluloses, proteases, lipases, amylases, and xylanases [90]. These enzymes comprise note-worthy biological molecules such as phyt ohormones and exopolysaccharides which re-main decisive in plant-microbiome affiliation an d assist in the stability of soil aggregates and water-retention of soil separates [91]. In addition, they play their part in the bioreme-diation of pollutants in saline soils [92]. To acclimatize to the low osmotic pressure, microorganisms and plants may accrue osmolytes. However, osmolyte  production through complex pathways expenses a signif-icant volume of energy with the involvement of  an enormous carbon skeleton [93] ensuing Figure 2. Climate change adaptation and soil microbiome.3.1. SalinizationHighly detrimental salinity stress shakes nearly all facets concerning the physiologyand biochemistry of plants and consequently adds to a noticeable fall in the yield andproductivity of crops [ 84]. Phytohormones constitute exemplary plant regulators and playtheir part in the growth and development of crops [ 85]. These organic constituents serveas signaling molecules in reaction to different environmental aspects [ 86]. For illustra-tion, auxin accounts for the stimulation of adventitious root growth and enhancementof cell proliferation in addition to delaying plant-aging processes have been accreditedto cytokinin hormone [ 87]. Plants under salinity stress tend to increase the productionof the hormone ABA and ethylene, in contrast to IAA, cytokinin, salicylic acid (SA), andjasmonic acid (JA), whose production is reduced [ 88]. Meager exudation or deprivationof hormones might retard plant growth under stressed environments. On contrary, aug-menting of hormones tends to advance stress tolerance [ 89]. Halo-tolerant and halophilicmicro-organisms adapt to such circumstances through the production of novel enzymesexhibiting polyextremophilic structures that operate among salinity conditions, for instance,celluloses, proteases, lipases, amylases, and xylanases [ 90]. These enzymes comprise note-worthy biological molecules such as phytohormones and exopolysaccharides which remaindecisive in plant-microbiome afﬁliation and assist in the stability of soil aggregates andwater-retention of soil separates [ 91]. In addition, they play their part in the bioremediationof pollutants in saline soils [92].To acclimatize to the low osmotic pressure, microorganisms and plants may accrue os-molytes. However, osmolyte production through complex pathways expenses a signiﬁcantvolume of energy with the involvement of an enormous carbon skeleton [93] ensuing in adecline in growth and activity. Proline and glycine betaine is the most common organicosmolytes, while potassium ions are the most common inorganic osmolytes in salt-tolerantbacteria [ 94]. Oxidative stress is caused by high salinity, which is comparable to droughtconditions. As a result of various changes in the physiology and metabolism of plants,reactive oxygen species (ROS) are usually formed. To counteract the effects of stress, ROSconcentration rises in unfavorable conditions. These signaling molecules may control theprocess of programmed cell death, stomata closure, or pathogen defense in plants [ 95].Plants have evolved complex anti-oxidative defense systems that include anti-oxidativeenzymes and other non-enzymatic antioxidant mechanisms to mitigate damage caused bythis stress [ 88]. Super oxidase dismutase (SOD) functions primarily as an O 2scavenger,generating H 2O2and O 2. As a result, catalase, ascorbate peroxidase, and guaiacol peroxi-Land 2022 ,11, 1887 8 of 20dase can scavenge H 2O2[96]. Malondialdehyde (MDA) is a biomarker for oxidative stressbecause it is the main product of polyunsaturated fatty acid peroxidation. MDA has a highbiological activity and the ability to travel long distances, allowing it to act far from itssource. This organic compound tends to inactivate enzymes and has an indirect effect onprotein synthesis processes [32].3.2. DroughtAbscisic acid (ABA), the professed stress hormone, is a crucial molecule because ofdrought and salinity stress circumference and grasps one of the prime stances as regulatorsof drought mitigation approaches [ 97]. The hormone levels possess a high correlation withthe extent of stress, serving as a proﬁcient index of its measure [ 98]. The occurrence ofsoluble receptor ABA is unique to plants. The cellular response to this abiotic stress istriggered by an increase in hormone levels. Consequently, the stomata of plants close, andstress-related genes’ expression levels alter. As a result, the plant tries to adjust to the newcircumstances while ABA is imperative in regulating the shoot-to-root growth ratio andpromoting root extension.Osmo-protectants encircling glutamine, glutamic acid, proline, taurine, volatile organiccompounds, and extracellular polymeric substances are most recognized and treasured fortheir exceptional characteristics. They can help microorganisms, as well as plants, surviveunder various stress conditions, particularly in high salinity [ 99]. Osmotic stress is reducedby the build-up of osmo-protectants, non-toxic, electrically neutral, and low molecularweight metabolites. Their efﬁciency relies on auxiliary turgor pressure in cells and iontransport across the plasma membrane [ 100]. Under drought conditions, proline stays anespecially important osmoprotectant for plants [101].3.3. Soil Fertility3.3.1. Bio-Fertilization with Nitrogen-Fixing MicroorganismsBiological nitrogen ﬁxation (BNF) has been recognized in achieving sustainable devel-opment goals in agriculture when employed in food and forage crops exhibiting economicimportance [102]. The introduction of microbial inoculants comprising Diazotrophs encir-cleRhizobium spp., Bradyrhizobium spp., Sinorhizobium spp., Mesorhizobium spp., Azorhizo-bium spp., Azospirillum spp., Thiobacillus spp., Clostridium spp., Cyanobacteria , and Frankiaspp. [ 103,104]. The inoculation of legumes with sole or a consortium of nitrogen-ﬁxingbacteria has been marked to perk up the fertility of the soil, plant growth, crop productivityas well as nutritional quality [105,106]. BNF empowers the reliance of legume crops uponatmospheric nitrogen that forms a base in legume-based agricultural systems, therebyreducing the use of excessive nitrogenous fertilizers [ 107]. This initiative hits the targets ofsoil fertility improvisation and reduction of potent greenhouse gas (N 2O) emissions withone arrow. Legume crops viz., lablab, soybean, common bean, groundnut, and cowpeaconstitute potential hosts for rhizobia to execute biological nitrogen ﬁxation that is directedto deliver ﬁxed nitrogen in the cropping system, ensuring the nutrient enrichment of soilsand additionally to solubilize insoluble soil phosphorus, to ameliorate physical environ-ment of soils, restoration of soil organic matter in conjunction with weed smothering [ 108].Although, the restoration of soil fertility assured with the legume residue decompositionrelies on the mode of exploitation of residues such as incorporation being more beneﬁcialin comparison to burning or total removal from ﬁelds [ 109]. AM fungi are marked toplay their part in nitrogen ﬁxation with the provision of favorable circumstances for thebacteria to infect plant roots [ 110]. Nasto et al. [ 111] put forth that colonization by AM fungican satisfy heightened requirements of phosphorus demanded by nitrogenase enzymesconcerning N 2ﬁxation. Voluminous explorations conveyed enhanced nitrogen ﬁxationcapability of trees or legumes in response to the co-inoculation of bacteria or AM [112].Land 2022 ,11, 1887 9 of 203.3.2. Bio-Fertilization with Nutrient Solubilizing and Mobilizing Microbial InoculantsThe consequences of the changing climate pose a stronger impact on nutrient ac-cessibility in the soil such as phosphorus (P), potassium (K), and iron (Fe) which oftenrestrict the growth and development of plants [ 113]. Phosphorus in the soil becomes mostlyinaccessible to plants, attributing it to the lower mobility as well as solubility in handwith its ﬁxation in the soil system. The chief mechanism underlying the solubilizationof phosphorus comprises the lowering of soil pH due to the production of organic acidsby soil microbes [ 114] and mineralization carried out by the phytases produced by fungisuch as Aspergillus fumigatus ,A. niger ,A. terreus ,A. parasiticus ,A. rugulosus ,A. candidus ,Penicilliumrubrum ,P . simplicissimum ,Pseudeurotium zonatum ,Trichoderma harzianum , and T.viride [115]. PSBs boost plant growth via the production of phytohormones viz., gibberellins,auxins, cytokinins or polyamides [ 116]. Burkholderia vietnamiensis, a bacterium tolerantto stress has been marked to secrete phosphorus solubilizing acids such as gluconic and2-ketogluconic acids [ 117], ensuring the soil fertility restoration under aspects of changingclimate. AM fungi augment the uptake of phosphorus in plants [ 118], solubilizes the soil’sinorganic phosphorus [ 119], and hydrolyses the organic phosphorus pools [ 120]. The mostwidely used mycorrhizal fungal inoculants engulf Glomus etunicatum, Funneliformismosseae and Rhizophagus irregularis [ 113,121]. Therefore, the exploitation of low-costphosphorus solubilizing and mobilizing microorganisms that offer their participation inthe geochemical cycling of phosphorus holds the utmost prominence in the alleviation ofnutrient deﬁciencies and losses in soil.The adaptation and resilience of soil ecosystems in response to changing climatestresses such as shortage of water and deterioration of soil through salinization demands asophisticated prominence of potassium accessibility given soil health restoration as well asplant performance [ 122]. Potassium solubilization is mediated by either plant or microbialexudation of organic acids or extracellular polysaccharides in the rhizosphere, facilitatingthe desorption of potassium through soil mineral dissolution [ 123]. A wide array of fungaland bacterial species in soil have been recognized to facilitate potassium release in plant-accessible forms. Microorganisms encircling Acidithiobacillus ferooxidans ,Azotobacter sp.,Arthrobacter sp., Rhizobacterium sp., Paenibacillus sp., Bacillus sp., Pseudomonas sp. andKlebsiella sp. [ 124,125] are acknowledged for their budding part in the mobilization ofinsoluble native potassium sources as proﬁcient biofertilizers, conﬁrming the reduced needfor potassium fertilization and thus ensuring the enhanced crop yields while employingeco-friendly as well as low expenditure crop production [126].A speciﬁc cluster of plants, as well as soil microbes, are acknowledged for Siderophoreproduction, chelating compounds possessing iron speciﬁcity in response to the iron starva-tion in soil and lend an instrumental hand in the transport and regulation of iron bioavail-ability [ 127]. Biofertilizers possessing multifunctionality comprise Bacillus subtilis ,Flavobac-terium ,Trichoderma spp., Pseudomonas aeruginosa ,Penicillium chrysogenum ,Rhizobium andStreptomyces griseus and are prominent for secreting chelating biomolecules exhibitingferric ion-speciﬁcity and additionally for stimulating the antagonistic programs againstpathogens harboring in plant rhizosphere [ 128]. Siderophore production by soil microor-ganisms has been extensively documented for bio-sensing, bio-control, bio-remediation,and as a chelating agent [ 129]. In addition, it ensures its part in weathering through adissolution of soil minerals [ 130], thereby safeguarding the nutrient accessibility for theresilience of soil ecosystems as well as crop performance.3.4. Bioremediation of Soil PollutantsSoil pollution, a hidden reality has now been a hovering concern across the globe,owing to its negative imprints on soil ecosystems, crop productivity as well as humanhealth. Climate change and its imprints add to the persistence and biomagniﬁcation ofenvironmental contaminants and are manifested by altered ecosystem services as well asescalated human exposures, intervening at the cost of soil as well as human health [ 131].These grave issues need to be addressed through the introduction of eco-friendly sub-Land 2022 ,11, 1887 10 of 20stitutes to compensate for the hitches of menacing phenolic compounds, persistent soilpollutants, and noxious heavy metal contamination [ 132]. Soil microbes offer an effectivehand regarding the elimination of pollutants and alleviation of negative effects that suchpollutants have on the soil and plants (Table 1).Table 1. Alleviation of abiotic stresses mediated by potential beneﬁcial rhizobacteria.Stress MicrobesMechanism of Mitigation of AbioticStressBeneﬁcial Host ReferenceDrought andSalinityB. subtilis ;A. protophormiae ;D. NatronolimnaeaProduction of IAA, abscisicacid/ACC deaminase level regulation,and modulation of gene expressionencoding for CTR1/DREB2 proteinsT. aestivum Barnawal et al., 2017 [133]Salinity Sphingomonas sp.Endogenous phytohormoneregulation (salicylic acid, abscisic acid,and jasmonic acid)SolanumpimpinellifoliumKhan et al., 2017 [134]SalinityHalobacillus dabanensis ;Halobacillus sp.Physiological modulationand Osmo-regulationOryza sativa Rima et al., 2018 [135]SalinityP . putidaNovosphingobium sp.Reduction of ABA and SA levels,inhibition of prolineand chloride accretionCitrus Vives-Peris et al., 2018 [136]Salinity Curtobacterium albidum Inducing systemic tolerance O. sativa Vimal et al., 2019 [137]SalinityB. halotolerans ;Lelliottia amnigenaJudicious employment of K+and Na+in root and shoot uptakeT. aestivum El-Akhdar et al., 2020 [138]Salinity Azotobacter sp.Improved physiological attributesand perked-up growth aspectsT. aestivum El-Nahrawy et al., 2020 [139]SalinityAcinetobacter bereziniae ;Enterobacter ludwigii ;Alcaligenes faecalisInﬂection of proline content,chlorophyll, total soluble sugarsPisum sativum Sapre et al., 2021 [140]Drought P . ﬂuorescens ;B. Subtilis Proline accretion, Enzyme activation Vigna radiata Saravanakumar et al., 2010 [141]Drought B. licheniformisupregulation of stress-related genesand Stress protein activationCapsicum annuum Lim et al., 2013 [142]DroughtAchromobacter xylosoxidans ;B. PumilisPhytohormone Secretionand regulationHelianthus annuus Castillo et al., 2013 [143]Drought Bacillus spp.Enriched relative water content,higher retention of soil moisture,better plant physiologyand proline contentsSorghum bicolor Grover et al., 2014 [144]DroughtB. thuringiensis ;P . polymyxaEnhanced volatile products such as-pinene, benzaldehyde,and geranyl acetoneTriticum aestivum Timmusk et al., 2014 [145]Drought P . aeruginosaElevated antioxidant levels, enrichedcell osmolytes and upregulating thestress-responsive genesV . radiata Sarma et al., 2013 [146]Drought Burkholderia sp.Improved plant physiologyand heightened plantgrowth regulatorsZea mays Fan et al., 2015 [147]Drought A. brasilensePhysiological and biochemicalalterations encircling the accent ofphotosynthetic pigments, abscisic acidlevels, lipid peroxidationand proline contentA. Thaliana Cohen et al., 2015 [148]Rhizo-remediation, the alleged spectacle to improve soil with the employment of root-afﬁliated microbes, engulfs the involvement of micro-organisms that aid in the remediationof xenobiotics in the root zone with the concurrent production of plant growth-promotingfactors. The phenomenon of bio-augmentation and phytoremediation are envisionedwhile plants deliver nutrients to a microbe in hand with the remediation of soil as wellas enhanced accessibility of nitrogen and phosphorus to plants, thereby, paying to soilLand 2022 ,11, 1887 11 of 20health as well as plant growth [ 149]. Mechanisms encircling the production of volatile or-ganic compounds, phytohormones, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate deaminize (ACC),Siderophore, quorum sensing, signal interference, bioﬁlm formation, etc., are exploited inview of bio-remediation of polluted soil by soil microbes [ 150]. Actinobacteria, Firmicutes,and Proteobacteria have been marked in primary colonization of sites polluted with heavymetals, while AMF is known for recurrent colonization of nutrient-deprived soils that areheavily metal polluted [ 151]. The ﬁlamentous hyphal structure of AMF helps to penetratedeep into the soil and provides an advantage in adsorbing heavy metals [ 152]. A variedarray of fungi and bacteria are recognized for the production of organic acids that intendto graft as natural heavy metal chelating agents [ 153]. Fomina et al. [ 154] marked therelease of organic acids such as oxalic acid and citric acid by Beauveria caledonica andwere noted to grab a potential for solubilizing Zn, Cu, Cd, and Pb. Bio-surfactants suchas rhamnolipids, surfactin, sophorolipids Saponin, etc. that are produced by differentsoil microbes exhibit inordinate potential regarding the removal of pollutants from sitesof contamination. The aforesaid compounds considerably diminish surface or interfacialtension, enhance aggregate formation even at low concentrations, and eventually can beadmirably crafted for bioremediation of contaminated soil [155].4. Bioengineered Microbes for Soil Health RestorationThe problem of soil health restoration is quite imperative in every polluted ecosphereas agricultural productivity is a direct index of self-sustainability of every growing economy.Owing to the shortcomings of native microbes in adapting to the new surroundings and exe-cuting efﬁcient pollutant degradation, genetically engineered ones might offer a hand givenhealthier crop performance [ 156]. These microbes act as double-headed swords in that theynourish the soil with metabolites, minerals, and growth regulatory compounds to perk upplant growth and remediate the contaminants that normal indigenous microbes cannotdegrade [ 157]. In addition, the bioengineered microbes serve as an innovative approachto reinforce stress tolerance in plants. Employing genetically engineered stress-tolerantmicrobes as inoculants facilitate their use for improved nutrient cycling to sustain foodproduction in the face of climate change [ 158]. Furthermore, these engineered microbes pos-sess great potential for combating phyto-pathogens, owing to the production of secondarymetabolites such as stirgolactone in parasitic nematodes-infested tomato roots [ 159]. Forthe creation of GMOs, a variety of molecular tools are available, including biolistic trans-formation, electroporation, conjugation, horizontal transfer of bacterial DNA, molecularcloning, and protoplast transformation. The transfer and expression of innovative genesexhibiting enhanced degradation ability also reduce the time required for remediation. Byexpressing genes encoded in bacterial plasmids, engineered microbes could remediate avariety of compounds such as octane, toluene, salicylate, xylene, and naphthalene [ 160].The researchers have proposed four different approaches: (a) manipulation of enzyme speci-ﬁcity in hand with enzyme afﬁnity; (b) creating gene and regulatory pathway alterations;(c) process advancement control and monitoring bioremediation; and (d) employment ofsensor-oriented bio-afﬁnity correspondents for sensing of pollutants, reducing toxicity, andenvisaging endpoints [ 157]. Engineering microbes with the aid of innovative gene-editingtools such as CRISPR-Cas 9 stays an economical and affordable approach to improvingsoil health by removing xenobiotics and promoting plant growth. However, the meagerexpression intensities of proteins that convene reﬂections of signiﬁcance viz., remediationof toxic xenobiotics, enhanced resistance, accretion of heavy metals, and faster degradationof a diverse range of pesticides comprise the bottleneck to soil health restoration usinggenetically engineered microbes.5. Advanced Tool Kits for Unveiling the Black Box of SoilConventional techniques such as Denaturing Gel Gradient Electrophoresis (DGGE),Terminal Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (TRFLP), Phospholipid Fatty AcidAnalysis (PLFA), Ampliﬁed Ribosomal DNA Restriction Analysis (ARISA), etc. are directedLand 2022 ,11, 1887 12 of 20to comprehend microbial community functioning and dynamics. Yet, appropriate com-prehension of soil ecosystems demands a lucidity of the microbial world and their alliedinteractions. The employment of molecular techniques has assisted in comprehendingthe compositional conﬁguration of soil microbiome at coarser levels [ 161], assessing thetaxa responses individually furnishes restricted insights given functional proﬁle shifts.However, the introduction of recent advances in the ﬁeld of molecular omics and sequenc-ing technologies has directed researchers to unravel the host-microbe afﬁliations at muchhigher resolution and functional implications [ 22]. The current genome-assisted moleculartools encircling ﬁve ﬁngers as genomics, metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, metapro-teomics, and metabolomics offer a response to such quests (Figure 3). Metagenomics holdsan unparalleled edge in contrast to conventional techniques of cultures as it is potent indetecting a range of microorganisms extensively in hand with speciﬁcity counting theunculturable ones too. Therefore, molecular advancements pooled with next-generationsequencing methodologies can serve potentially to assure higher reliability, effectiveness,and eco-friendly approaches in the detection of microbial cultures and their allied activitiesin soil [162].Land  2022 , 11, 1887 13 of 21   Figure 3. Techniques for unveiling the black box of soil. The term ‘Omics’ revolves ar ound the quantification of an array of molecules that possess by and large biological characteristics to sense the structure, function, physiology, and molecular mechanisms of a wide range of organisms [163]. Omics-driven data sys-tematically furnishes a snapshot of expression s about related genes in hand with proteins and metabolite patterns which inclusively deliv er a comprehensive insight into organism-allied activities in view of its association with the soil microenvironment [22]. Omics-ori-ented techniques applied to soil ecosystems  have stemmed from the budding of a new arena in the field of soil science. The exploita tion of omics-driven techniques to detect functions of microbial communities, not to elucidate multiple omics synthesis into coher-ent ecological evidence, is very challenging, owing to the heterogeneity and complexity of soil microbiome [164]. In fact, a relatively  meek analysis of amplicon sequencing about community composition may yield different results as a consequence of variations in se-quencing depth, primer bias, choice of the processing pipeline, or  DNA extraction proto-col [165,166]. The availability of more advanced techniques such as stable isotope probing has made it possible for researchers to estimate the active diversity involved in a multi-tude of functions [167]. DNA isolation from the soil in hand with the screening as well as the production of clone archives comprise the foundation of so il metagenomics [168].  A noticeable impres-sion on the discovery of novel genetic biomolec ules has been accredited to the recognition, and assessment along with the cultivation of enormous pools of widespread genetic res-ervoirs amid soil microbiome. Although, the characterization of biochemistry and physi-ology of soil micro-organisms in addition to  their genetic make-up with the employment of 16s rRNA gene amplification up surged a re volution in a complete system, yet a minute to no information regarding the functional potential of such microbial communities has been furnished [169]. As a result, there ha s been a movement toward adopting shotgun metagenomics to investigate and comprehend both the structural and functional compo-sition of microbial communities  inside a habitat. Even though the shotgun sequencing technique delivers the functional  potential, it nose-dives the profundity allied with am-plicon sequencing which aftermath results in less abundant taxa being overlooked [170,171]. Because of the pr ocessing power necessary to build metagenomes comprising tens of thousands of species, computational demand becomes a concern when shifting to metagenomics analysis [172]. Although metatr anscriptomics offers the advantage of being able to determine the active species and th e responsible genes that are expressed over amplicon sequencing or metagenomics techni ques, it is not without downsides [173]. Ex-ogenous ribosomal RNA encircle s the majority of extracted RNA, necessitating an addi-tional rRNA depletion stage in conjunction wi th increased sequencing depth to make this study possible [174]. Eventually, metaproteomics affords treasured information regarding Figure 3. Techniques for unveiling the black box of soil.The term ‘Omics’ revolves around the quantiﬁcation of an array of molecules thatpossess by and large biological characteristics to sense the structure, function, physiology,and molecular mechanisms of a wide range of organisms [ 163]. Omics-driven data system-atically furnishes a snapshot of expressions about related genes in hand with proteins andmetabolite patterns which inclusively deliver a comprehensive insight into organism-alliedactivities in view of its association with the soil microenvironment [ 22]. Omics-orientedtechniques applied to soil ecosystems have stemmed from the budding of a new arenain the ﬁeld of soil science. The exploitation of omics-driven techniques to detect func-tions of microbial communities, not to elucidate multiple omics synthesis into coherentecological evidence, is very challenging, owing to the heterogeneity and complexity ofsoil microbiome [ 164]. In fact, a relatively meek analysis of amplicon sequencing aboutcommunity composition may yield different results as a consequence of variations insequencing depth, primer bias, choice of the processing pipeline, or DNA extraction proto-col [165,166]. The availability of more advanced techniques such as stable isotope probinghas made it possible for researchers to estimate the active diversity involved in a multitudeof functions [167].DNA isolation from the soil in hand with the screening as well as the production ofclone archives comprise the foundation of soil metagenomics [ 168]. A noticeable impressionon the discovery of novel genetic biomolecules has been accredited to the recognition, andassessment along with the cultivation of enormous pools of widespread genetic reservoirsamid soil microbiome. Although, the characterization of biochemistry and physiology ofLand 2022 ,11, 1887 13 of 20soil micro-organisms in addition to their genetic make-up with the employment of 16srRNA gene ampliﬁcation up surged a revolution in a complete system, yet a minute to noinformation regarding the functional potential of such microbial communities has beenfurnished [ 169]. As a result, there has been a movement toward adopting shotgun metage-nomics to investigate and comprehend both the structural and functional composition ofmicrobial communities inside a habitat. Even though the shotgun sequencing techniquedelivers the functional potential, it nose-dives the profundity allied with amplicon sequenc-ing which aftermath results in less abundant taxa being overlooked [ 170,171]. Because ofthe processing power necessary to build metagenomes comprising tens of thousands ofspecies, computational demand becomes a concern when shifting to metagenomics analy-sis [172]. Although metatranscriptomics offers the advantage of being able to determinethe active species and the responsible genes that are expressed over amplicon sequencingor metagenomics techniques, it is not without downsides [ 173]. Exogenous ribosomalRNA encircles the majority of extracted RNA, necessitating an additional rRNA depletionstage in conjunction with increased sequencing depth to make this study possible [ 174].Eventually, metaproteomics affords treasured information regarding gene expression andconsequent translation arrays [ 175], although proteomics technologies are currently toolow-throughput for broad use. Soil metabolomics, on the other hand, is effective forcomprehending the biogeochemical cycling by attaining high-resolution snapshots of soilnutrient proﬁles and ﬂux arrays of metabolites, albeit these advances might be hamperedby inadequately marked reference databases and determining metabolite sources [ 176]. Theaforesaid technologies have nowadays unbolted a platform to assess microbial diversityand functions extensively, thereby permitting orderly examination of chieﬂy unexploitedarenas of the microbial world. Indeed, the comparative studies on meta-genomics of di-verse soil microbial communities have bloomed via the provision of considerable intuitionsinto the allocation of genes across diverse ecosystems in hand with the chunk of speciﬁcfunctional aspects to acclimatize speckled environmental circumstances [177].6. ConclusionsThe call of action in response to the pace of the ever-growing human population andclimate change demands a better comprehension of the microbiome in face of changingclimate. Voluminous evidence reﬂects that soil micro-organisms are inﬂuenced by climatechange-associated agitations, delivering imperative feedback to the health of the ecosystemas well as climate constraints. However, despite the pragmatic uncertainties triggered bythe changing climate scenario, the potential impact of soil microbial communities can bemanipulated for monitoring climate change impacts and adaptation as well as mitigation ofthe same. In addition, the ecosystem services offered by soil microbes connote hammer andnails for conserving a sound ecosystem for forthcoming generations. Consequently, thereis a persistent demand to advance a better comprehension of the outcomes of changingclimate regarding vital biogeochemical processes delivered by soil microbes and to exploitthis information in making healthier estimates of climate change impacts which ultimatelywould aid in designing the microbial strategies to struggle further climate repercussions,as well as soil degradation Novel genomic approaches, offer a decisive part in microbe-oriented studies to reveal the taxa that are prone to climatic change disturbances andthe responses that direct alterations in structure and functioning of prevalent microbialcommunities. Considering the above aspects, there is a call for a handsome appreciation ofthe soil as a living component and ampliﬁed apprehension about the future to check theimperiling fragile resources on account of adverse climate change consequences.Author Contributions: Conceptualization: A.M.S. and T.I.S.; supervision: N.A.K., A.B., A.M.A.,S.A.B., I.M.K. and S.N. designed the structure of review paper. Y.H.M. revised the bioremediationsection. A.R.M. revised the whole manuscript. A.H. revised climate change section. All authors haveread and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Land 2022 ,11, 1887 14 of 20Funding: This project is supported by the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council ofCanada (NSERC) (RGPIN-2014-4100). The open access fee is supported by the Natural Sciences andEngineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC) (RGPIN-2014-4100).Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Lykogianni, M.; Bempelou, E.; Karamaouna, F.; Aliferis, K.A. Do pesticides promote or hinder sustainability in agriculture? Thechallenge of sustainable use of pesticides in modern agriculture. Sci. Total Environ. 2021 ,795, 148625. [CrossRef] [PubMed]2. Bai, Z.G.; Dent, D.L.; Olsson, L.; Schaepman, M.E. Proxy global assessment of land degradation. Soil Use Manag. 2008 ,24, 223–234.[CrossRef]3. Montanarella, L.; Pennock, D.J.; McKenzie, N.; Badraoui, M.; Chude, V .; Baptista, I.; Mamo, T.; Yemefack, M.; Singh Aulakh, M.;Yagi, K.; et al. World’s soils are under threat. Soil Discuss. 2015 ,2, 1263–1272. [CrossRef]4. Van Meijl, J.C.M.; Havlik, P .; Lotze-Campen, H.; Stehfest, E.; Witzke, P .; Dom ínguez, I.P .; Bodirsky, B.; van Dijk, M.; Doelman, J.C.;Fellmann, T.; et al. Challenges of global agriculture in a climate change context by 2050 (AgCLIM50). In JRC Science for PolicyReport ; EUR 28649 EN; Publications Ofﬁce of the European Union: Luxembourg. [CrossRef]5. Kopittke, P .M.; Menzies, N.W.; Wang, P .; McKenna, B.A.; Lombi, E. Soil and the intensiﬁcation of agriculture for global foodsecurity. Environ. Int. 2019 ,132, 105078. [CrossRef] [PubMed]6. Greiner, L.; Keller, A.; Gret-Regamey, A.; Papritz, A. Soil function assessment, review of methods for quantifying the contributionsof soils to ecosystem services. Land Use Policy 2017 ,69, 224–237. [CrossRef]7. MacLaren, C.; Storkey, J.; Menegat, A.; Metcalfe, H.; Dehnen-Schmutz, K. An ecological future for weed science to sustain cropproduction and the environment. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2020 ,40, 1–29. [CrossRef]8. Rodriguez, R.; Duran, P . Natural holobiome engineering by using native extreme microbiome to counteract the climate changeeffects. Front. Bioeng. Biotechnol. 2020 ,8, 568. [CrossRef]9. Raza, A.; Razzaq, A.; Mehmood, S.S.; Zou, X.; Zhang, X.; Lv, Y.; Xu, J. Impact of climate change on crops adaptation and strategiesto tackle its outcome, A review. Plants 2019 ,8, 34. [CrossRef]10. Poore, J.; Nemecek, T. Reducing food’s environmental impacts through producers and consumers. Science 2018 ,360, 987.[CrossRef]11. Parajuli, R.; Thoma, G.; Matlock, M.D. Environmental sustainability of fruit and vegetable production supply chains in the face ofclimate change, A review. Sci. Total Environ. 2019 ,650, 2863–2879. [CrossRef]12. Swaminathan, M.S.; Kesavan, P .C. Agricultural research in an era of climate change. Agric. Res. 2012 ,1, 3–11. [CrossRef]13. Blattner, C. Just transition for agriculture? A critical step in tackling climate change. J. Agric. Food Syst. Community Dev. 2020 ,25,53–58. [CrossRef]14. Heidecke, C.; Montgomery, H.; Stalb, H.; Wollenberg, L. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Agricultural GHGEmissions and Food Security-Connecting Research to Policy and Practice, Berlin, Germany, 10–13 September 2018.15. Del Buono, D. Can bio stimulants be used to mitigate the effect of anthropogenic climate change on agriculture? It is time torespond. Sci. Total Environ. 2021 ,751, 141763. [CrossRef] [PubMed]16. Jansson, J.K.; Hofmockel, K.S. Soil microbiomes and climate change. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2020 ,1, 35–46. [CrossRef]17. Guo, M. Soil Health Assessment and Management, Recent Development in Science and Practices. Soil Syst. 2021 ,5, 61. [CrossRef]18. Bagnall, D.K.; Shanahan, J.F.; Flanders, A.; Morgan, C.L.; Honeycutt, C.W. Soil health considerations for global food security.Agronomy 2021 ,113, 4581–4589. [CrossRef]19. Bisht, N.; Chauhan, P .S. Excessive and Disproportionate Use of Chemicals Cause Soil Contamination and Nutritional Stress.InSoil Contamination—Threats and Sustainable Solutions ; Larramendy, M.L., Soloneski, S., Eds.; IntechOpen: London, UK, 2020.[CrossRef]20. Bargaz, A.; Lyamlouli, K.; Chtouki, M.; Zeroual, Y.; Dhiba, D. Soil microbial resources for improving fertilizers efﬁciency in anintegrated plant nutrient management system. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 1606. [CrossRef]21. Van Der Heijden, M.G.; Bardgett, R.D.; Van Straalen, N.M. The unseen majority, soil microbes as drivers of plant diversity andproductivity in terrestrial ecosystems. Ecol. Lett. 2008 ,11, 296–310. [CrossRef]22. Dubey, A.; Malla, M.A.; Khan, F.; Chowdhary, K.; Yadav, S.; Kumar, A.; Sharma, S.; Khare, P .K.; Khan, M.L. Soil microbiome, a keyplayer for conservation of soil health under changing climate. Biodivers. Conserv. 2019 ,28, 2405–2429. [CrossRef]23. Norby, R.J.; De Kauwe, M.G.; Domingues, T.F.; Duursma, R.A.; Ellsworth, D.S.; Goll, D.S.; Lapola, D.M.; Luus, K.A.; MacKenzie,A.R.; Medlyn, B.E.; et al. Model–data synthesis for the next generation of forest free-air CO 2enrichment (FACE) experiments.New Phytol. 2016 ,209, 17–28. [CrossRef]24. Karmakar, R.; Das, I.; Dutta, D.; Rakshit, A. Potential effects of climate change on soil properties, a review. Sci. Int. 2016 ,4, 51–73.[CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 15 of 2025. Pareek, N. Climate change impact on soils, adaptation and mitigation. MOJ Ecol. Environ. Sci. 2017 ,2, 26. [CrossRef]26. Hussain, S.; Hussain, S.; Guo, R.; Sarwar, M.; Ren, X.; Krstic, D.; Aslam, Z.; Zulifqar, U.; Rauf, A.; Hano, C.; et al. CarbonSequestration to Avoid Soil Degradation, A Review on the Role of Conservation Tillage. Plants 2021 ,10, 2001. [CrossRef][PubMed]27. Chander, S. Impact of Climate Change on Insects InClimate Change Impact, Adaptation and Mitigation in Agriculture, Methodology forAssessment and Application ; Indian Agricultural Research Institute: New Delhi, India, 2012; Volume 302, pp. 111–130.28. DEFRA. Impact of Climate Change on Soil Functions ; Final Project Report Research and Development: London, UK, 2005.29. Yi, F.; Liu, H.; Quan, Q. Impact of Climate Change on Chemical Inputs: Evidence of Pesticide Usage from China. In Proceedingsof the 2021 Annual Meeting, Austin, Texas, 1–3 August 2021; Agricultural and Applied Economics Association: Milwaukee, WI,USA, 2021; p. 313374. [CrossRef]30. Medhi, K.; Bhardwaj, R.; Laxmi, R. Climate change with its impacts on soil and soil microbiome regulating biogeochemicalnutrient transformations. In Climate Change and the Microbiome ; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2021; pp. 95–138.31. Cai, A.; Feng, W.; Zhang, W.; Xu, M. Climate, soil texture, and soil types affect the contributions of ﬁne-fraction-stabilized carbonto total soil organic carbon in different land uses across China. J. Environ. Manag. 2016 ,172, 2–9. [CrossRef]32. He, A.L.; Niu, S.Q.; Zhao, Q.; Li, Y.S.; Gou, J.Y.; Gao, H.J.; Suo, S.Z.; Zhang, J.L. Induced salt tolerance of perennial ryegrass by anovel bacterium strain from the rhizosphere of a desert shrub Haloxylon ammodendron. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 469. [CrossRef]33. Delgado, A.; Gomez, J.A. The soil. Physical, chemical and biological properties. In Principles of Agronomy for Sustainable Agriculture ;Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016; pp. 15–26.34. Bardgett, R.D.; Freeman, C.; Ostle, N.J. Microbial contributions to climate change through carbon cycle feedbacks. ISME J. 2008 ,2,805–814. [CrossRef]35. Alava, J.J.; Cheung, W.W.L.; Ross, P .S.; Sumaila, U.R. Climate change–contaminant interactions in marine food webs: Toward aconceptual framework. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2017 ,23, 3984–4001. [CrossRef]36. Biswas, B.; Qi, F.; Biswas, J.K.; Wijayawardena, A.; Khan, M.A.I.; Naidu, R. The fate of chemical pollutants with soil propertiesand processes in the climate change paradigm—A review. Soil Syst. 2018 ,2, 51. [CrossRef]37. Paltseva, A.A.; Neaman, A. An emerging frontier: Metal (loid) soil pollution threat under global climate change. Environ. Toxicol.Chem. 2020 ,39, 1653–1654. [CrossRef]38. Haines, A.; Kovats, R.S.; Campbell-Lendrum, D.; Corvalan, C. Climate change and human health: Impacts, vulnerability andpublic health. Public Health 2006 ,120, 585–596. [CrossRef]39. Jacoby, R.; Peukert, M.; Succurro, A.; Koprivova, A.; Kopriva, S. The role of soil microorganisms in plant mineral nutrition—currentknowledge and future directions. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1617. [CrossRef] [PubMed]40. Christy, C. Unearthing the Soil Microbiome, Climate Change, Carbon Storage Nexus. Am. Soc. Microbiol. 2021.41. Allison, S.D.; Martiny, J.B. Resistance, resilience, and redundancy in microbial communities. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2008 ,105,11512–11519. [CrossRef]42. Grifﬁths, B.S.; Philippot, L. Insights into the resistance and resilience of the soil microbial community. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2013 ,37, 112–129. [CrossRef]43. Wahl, T.; Ward, P .J.; Winsemius, H.C.; AghaKouchak, A.; Bender, J.; Haigh, I.D.; Jain, S.; Leonard, M.; Veldkamp, T.I.; Westra, S.When environmental forces collide. Eos2018 ,99. [CrossRef]44. Naylor, D.; Sadler, N.; Bhattacharjee, A.; Graham, E.B.; Anderton, C.R.; McClure, R.; Lipton, M.; Hofmockel, K.S.; Jansson, J.K.Soil microbiomes under climate change and implications for carbon cycling. Annu. Rev. Environ. Resour. 2020 ,1, 29–59. [CrossRef]45. Classen, A.T.; Sundqvist, M.K.; Henning, J.A.; Newman, G.S.; Moore, J.A.; Cregger, M.A.; Moorhead, L.C.; Patterson, C.M. Directand indirect effects of climate change on soil microbial and soil microbial-plant interactions, What lies ahead? Ecosphere 2015 ,6,1–21. [CrossRef]46. Schindlbacher, A.; Rodler, A.; Kuffner, M.; Kitzler, B.; Sessitsch, A.; Zechmeister-Boltenstern, S. Experimental warming effects onthe microbial community of a temperate mountain forest soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2011 ,43, 1417–1425. [CrossRef]47. Hu, H.W.; Macdonald, C.A.; Trivedi, P .; Anderson, I.C.; Zheng, Y.; Holmes, B.; Bodrossy, L.; Wang, J.T.; He, J.Z.; Singh, B.K. Effectsof climate warming and elevated CO2 on autotrophic nitriﬁcation and nitriﬁers in dryland ecosystems. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2016 ,92, 1–5. [CrossRef]48. Karhu, K.; Auffret, M.D.; Dungait, J.A.; Hopkins, D.W.; Prosser, J.I.; Singh, B.K.; Subke, J.A.; Wookey, P .A.; Agren, G.I.; Sebastia,M.T.; et al. Temperature sensitivity of soil respiration rates enhanced by microbial community response. Nature 2014 ,513, 81–84.[CrossRef]49. Bai, E.; Li, S.; Xu, W.; Li, W.; Dai, W.; Jiang, P . A meta-analysis of experimental warming effects on terrestrial nitrogen pools anddynamics. New Phytol. 2013 ,199, 441–451. [CrossRef] [PubMed]50. Melillo, J.M.; Frey, S.D.; DeAngelis, K.M.; Werner, W.J.; Bernard, M.J.; Bowles, F.P .; Pold, G.; Knorr, M.A.; Grandy, A.S. Long-termpattern and magnitude of soil carbon feedback to the climate system in a warming world. Science 2017 ,358, 101–105. [CrossRef][PubMed]51. DeAngelis, K.M.; Pold, G.; Topcuoglu, B.D.; van Diepen, L.T.; Varney, R.M.; Blanchard, J.L.; Melillo, J.; Frey, S.D. Long-term forestsoil warming alters microbial communities in temperate forest soils. Front. Microbiol. 2015 ,6, 104. [CrossRef] [PubMed]52. Dutta, H.; Dutta, A. The microbial aspect of climate change. Energy Ecol. Environ. 2016 ,1, 209–232. [CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 16 of 2053. Rosado-Porto, D.; Ratering, S.; Cardinale, M.; Maisinger, C.; Moser, G.; Deppe, M.; Müller, C.; Schnell, S. Elevated AtmosphericCO2 Modiﬁes Mostly the Metabolic Active Rhizosphere Soil Microbiome in the Giessen FACE Experiment. Microb. Ecol. 2021 ,19,1–6. [CrossRef]54. Yu, H.; Deng, Y.; He, Z.; Van Nostrand, J.D.; Wang, S.; Jin, D.; Wang, A.; Wu, L.; Wang, D.; Tai, X.; et al. Elevated CO2 andwarming altered grassland microbial communities in soil top-layers. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 1790. [CrossRef]55. Qiao, N.A.; Schaefer, D.; Blagodatskaya, E.; Zou, X.; Xu, X.; Kuzyakov, Y. Labile carbon retention compensates for CO2 releasedby priming in forest soils. Glob. Change Biol. 2014 ,20, 1943–1954. [CrossRef]56. Hayden, H.L.; Mele, P .M.; Bougoure, D.S.; Allan, C.Y.; Norng, S.; Piceno, Y.M.; Brodie, E.L.; DeSantis, T.Z.; Andersen, G.L.;Williams, A.L.; et al. Changes in the microbial community structure of bacteria, archaea and fungi in response to elevated CO2and warming in an Australian native grassland soil. Environ. Microbiol. 2012 ,14, 3081–3096. [CrossRef]57. Abdul Rahman, N.S.; Abdul Hamid, N.W.; Nadarajah, K. Effects of abiotic stress on soil microbiome. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 9036. [CrossRef]58. Siebielec, S.; Siebielec, G.; Klimkowicz-Pawlas, A.; Galazka, A.; Grzadziel, J.; Stuczynski, T. Impact of water stress on microbialcommunity and activity in sandy and loamy soils. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 1429. [CrossRef]59. Sheik, C.S.; Beasley, W.H.; Elshahed, M.S.; Zhou, X.; Luo, Y.; Krumholz, L.R. Effect of warming and drought on grasslandmicrobial communities. ISME J. 2011 ,5, 1692–1700. [CrossRef]60. Nguyen, L.T.; Osanai, Y.; Anderson, I.C.; Bange, M.P .; Tissue, D.T.; Singh, B.K. Flooding and prolonged drought have differentiallegacy impacts on soil nitrogen cycling, microbial communities and plant productivity. Plant Soil 2018 ,1, 371–387. [CrossRef]61. Bogati, K.; Walczak, M. The impact of drought stress on soil microbial community, enzyme activities and plants. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189. [CrossRef]62. Breitkreuz, C.; Herzig, L.; Buscot, F.; Reitz, T.; Tarkka, M. Interactions between soil properties, agricultural management andcultivar type drive structural and functional adaptations of the wheat rhizosphere microbiome to drought. Environ. Microbiol.2021 ,23, 5866–5882. [CrossRef]63. Upton, R.N.; Bach, E.M.; Hofmockel, K.S. Below ground response of prairie restoration and resiliency to drought. Agric. Ecosyst.Environ. 2018 ,266, 122–132. [CrossRef]64. De Vries, F.T.; Grifﬁths, R.I.; Bailey, M.; Craig, H.; Girlanda, M.; Gweon, H.S.; Hallin, S.; Kaisermann, A.; Keith, A.M.; Kretzschmar,M.; et al. Soil bacterial networks are less stable under drought than fungal networks. Nat. Commun. 2018 ,9, 1–2. [CrossRef][PubMed]65. Treseder, K.K.; Berlemont, R.; Allison, S.D.; Martiny, A.C. Drought increases the frequencies of fungal functional genes related tocarbon and nitrogen acquisition. PLoS ONE 2018 ,13, e0206441. [CrossRef]66. Carson, J.K.; Gonzalez-Quinones, V .; Murphy, D.V .; Hinz, C.; Shaw, J.A.; Gleeson, D.B. Low pore connectivity increases bacterialdiversity in soil. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2010 ,76, 3936–3942. [CrossRef]67. Dechesne, A.; Wang, G.; Gulez, G.; Or, D.; Smets, B.F. Hydration-controlled bacterial motility and dispersal on surfaces. Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA 2010 ,107, 14369–14372. [CrossRef]68. Guhr, A.; Borken, W.; Spohn, M.; Matzner, E. Redistribution of soil water by a saprotrophic fungus enhances carbon mineralization.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2015 ,112, 14647–14651. [CrossRef]69. Sorensen, P .O.; Templer, P .H.; Finzi, A.C. Contrasting effects of winter snowpack and soil frost on growing season microbialbiomass and enzyme activity in two mixed-hardwood forests. Biogeochemistry 2016 ,128, 141–154. [CrossRef]70. Shim, J.H.; Pendall, E.; Morgan, J.A.; Ojima, D.S. Wetting and drying cycles drive variations in the stable carbon isotope ratio ofrespired carbon dioxide in semi-arid grassland. Oecologia 2009 ,160, 321–333. [CrossRef] [PubMed]71. Aanderud, Z.T.; Schoolmaster, D.R.; Lennon, J.T. Plants mediate the sensitivity of soil respiration to rainfall variability. Ecosystems2011 ,14, 156–167. [CrossRef]72. Grzyb, A.; Wolna-Maruwka, A.; Niewiadomska, A. Environmental factors affecting the mineralization of crop residues. Agronomy2020 ,10, 1951. [CrossRef]73. Sjogaard, K.S.; Valdemarsen, T.B.; Treusch, A.H. Responses of an agricultural soil microbiome to ﬂooding with seawater aftermanaged coastal realignment. Microorganisms 2018 ,6, 12. [CrossRef]74. Schimel, J.; Balser, T.C.; Wallenstein, M. Microbial stress-response physiology and its implications for ecosystem function. Ecology2007 ,88, 1386–1394. [CrossRef]75. Babalola, O.O.; Glick, B.R. The use of microbial inoculants in African agriculture, current practice and future prospects. J. FoodAgric. Environ. 2012 ,10, 540–549.76. Kalayu, G. Phosphate solubilizing microorganisms, promising approach as biofertilizers. Int. J. Agron. 2019 ,2019 , 4917256.[CrossRef]77. Stamenkovic, S.; Beskoski, V .; Karabegovic, I.; Lazic, M.; Nikolic, N. Microbial fertilizers, A comprehensive review of currentﬁndings and future perspectives. Span. J. Agric. Res. 2018 ,16, e09R01. [CrossRef]78. Kohl, J.; Kolnaar, R.; Ravensberg, W.J. Mode of action of microbial biological control agents against plant diseases, relevancebeyond efﬁcacy. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 845. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Malik, A.; Mor, V .S.; Tokas, J.; Punia, H.; Malik, S.; Malik, K.; Sangwan, S.; Tomar, S.; Singh, P .; Singh, N.; et al. Biostimulant-treatedseedlings under sustainable agriculture, A global perspective facing climate change. Agronomy 2020 ,11, 14. [CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 17 of 2080. Sun, X.G.; Tang, M. Effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inoculation on root traits and root volatile organic compound emissionsof Sorghum bicolor. South Afr. J. Bot. 2013 ,88, 373–379. [CrossRef]81. Heil, M.; Bostock, R.M. Induced systemic resistance (ISR) against pathogens in the context of induced plant defences. Ann. Bot.2002 ,89, 503–512. [CrossRef]82. Gouda, S.; Kerry, R.G.; Das, G.; Paramithiotis, S.; Shin, H.S.; Patra, J.K. Revitalization of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria forsustainable development in agriculture. Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,206, 131–140. [CrossRef]83. Gupta, V .V .; Zhang, B.; Penton, C.R.; Yu, J.; Tiedje, J.M. Diazotroph diversity and nitrogen ﬁxation in summer active perennialgrasses in a Mediterranean region agricultural soil. Front. Mol. Biosci. 2019 ,6, 115. [CrossRef]84. Singh, M.; Kumar, J.; Singh, S.; Singh, V .P .; Prasad, S.M. Roles of osmoprotectants in improving salinity and drought tolerance inplants, a review. Rev. Environ. Sci. BioTechnol. 2015 ,14, 407–426. [CrossRef]85. Delgado, C.; Mora-Poblete, F.; Ahmar, S.; Chen, J.T.; Figueroa, C.R. Jasmonates and plant salt stress, Molecular players,physiological effects, and improving tolerance by using genome-associated tools. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 3082. [CrossRef]86. Vejan, P .; Abdullah, R.; Khadiran, T.; Ismail, S.; Nasrulhaq Boyce, A. Role of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria in agriculturalsustainability—a review. Molecules 2016 ,21, 573. [CrossRef]87. Neina, D. The role of soil pH in plant nutrition and soil remediation. Appl. Environ. Soil Sci. 2019 ,2019 , 5794869. [CrossRef]88. Wu, W.; Zhang, Q.; Ervin, E.; Yang, Z.; Zhang, X. Physiological mechanism of enhancing salt stress tolerance of perennial ryegrassby 24-epibrassinolide. Front. Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1017. [CrossRef] [PubMed]89. Mukherjee, S.; Mishra, A.; Trenberth, K.E. Climate change and drought, a perspective on drought indices. Curr. Clim. Chang. Rep.2018 ,4, 145–163. [CrossRef]90. Mukhtar, S.; Malik, K.A.; Mehnaz, S. Microbiome of halophytes, Diversity and importance for plant health and productivity.Microbiol. Biotechnol. Lett. 2019 ,47, 1–10. [CrossRef]91. Mukhtar, S.; Mehnaz, S.; Mirza, M.S.; Malik, K.A. Isolation and characterization of bacteria associated with the rhizosphere ofhalophytes (Salsola stocksii and Atriplex amnicola) for production of hydrolytic enzymes. Braz. J. Microbiol. 2019 ,50, 85–97.[CrossRef] [PubMed]92. Bergi, J.; Trivedi, R. Bioremediation of Saline Soil by Cyanobacteria. In Microbial Bioremediation & Biodegradation ; Springer:Singapore, 2020; pp. 447–465.93. Chakraborty, K.; Mondal, S.; Ray, S.; Samal, P .; Pradhan, B.; Chattopadhyay, K.; Kar, M.K.; Swain, P .; Sarkar, R.K. Tissue tolerancecoupled with ionic discrimination can potentially minimize the energy cost of salinity tolerance in rice. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 265. [CrossRef] [PubMed]94. Csonka, L.N. Physiological and genetic responses of bacteria to osmotic stress. Microbiol. Rev. 1989 ,53, 121–147. [CrossRef]95. Dos Santos, R.M.; Diaz, P .A.; Lobo, L.L.; Rigobelo, E.C. Use of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria in maize and sugarcane,Characteristics and applications. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2020 ,4, 136. [CrossRef]96. Aslam, F.; Ali, B. Halotolerant bacterial diversity associated with Suaeda fruticosa (L.) forssk improved growth of maize undersalinity stress. Agronomy 2018 ,8, 131. [CrossRef]97. Vishwakarma, K.; Upadhyay, N.; Kumar, N.; Yadav, G.; Singh, J.; Mishra, R.K.; Kumar, V .; Verma, R.; Upadhyay, R.G.; Pandey, M.;et al. Abscisic acid signalling and abiotic stress tolerance in plants, a review on current knowledge and future prospects. Front.Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 161. [CrossRef]98. Sah, S.K.; Reddy, K.R.; Li, J. Abscisic acid and abiotic stress tolerance in crop plants. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 571. [CrossRef]99. Otieno, N.; Lally, R.D.; Kiwanuka, S.; Lloyd, A.; Ryan, D.; Germaine, K.J.; Dowling, D.N. Plant growth promotion induced byphosphate solubilizing endophytic Pseudomonas isolates. Front. Microbiol. 2015 ,6, 745. [CrossRef] [PubMed]100. Chen, Y.; Ye, J.; Kong, Q. Potassium-solubilizing activity of bacillus aryabhattai SK1-7 and its growth-promoting effect on Populusalba L.Forests 2020 ,11, 1348. [CrossRef]101. Fiodor, A.; Singh, S.; Pranaw, K. The contrivance of plant growth promoting microbes to mitigate climate change impact inagriculture. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 1841. [CrossRef] [PubMed]102. Mahmud, K.; Makaju, S.; Ibrahim, R.; Missaoui, A. Current progress in nitrogen ﬁxing plants and microbiome research. Plants2020 ,9, 97. [CrossRef]103. Mus, F.; Alleman, A.B.; Pence, N.; Seefeldt, L.C.; Peters, J.W. Exploring the alternatives of biological nitrogen ﬁxation. Metallomics2018 ,10, 523–538. [CrossRef]104. Raimi, A.R.; Ezeokoli, O.T.; Adeleke, R.A. High-throughput sequence analysis of bacterial communities in commercial biofertiliz-ers products marketed in South Africa, an independent snapshot quality assessment. 3 Biotech 2019 ,9, 1–2.105. Mabrouk, Y.; Hemissi, I.; Salem, I.B.; Mejri, S.; Saidi, M.; Belhadj, O. Potential of rhizobia in improving nitrogen ﬁxation andyields of legumes. Symbiosis 2018 ,107, 73495.106. Menge, E.M.; Njeru, E.M.; Koskey, G.; Maingi, J. Rhizobial inoculation methods affect the nodulation and plant growth traitsof host plant genotypes, a case study of common bean Phaseolus vulgaris L. germplasms cultivated by smallholder farmers inEastern Kenya. Adv. Agric. Sci. 2018 ,6, 77–94.107. Lengwati, D.M.; Mathews, C.; Dakora, F.D. Rotation beneﬁts from N2-ﬁxing grain legumes to cereals, from increases in seed yieldand quality to greater household cash-income by a following maize crop. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2020 ,4, 94. [CrossRef]108. Stagnari, F.; Maggio, A.; Galieni, A.; Pisante, M. Multiple beneﬁts of legumes for agriculture sustainability, an overview. Chem.Biol. Technol. Agric. 2017 ,4, 1–3. [CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 18 of 20109. Thilakarathna, M.S.; McElroy, M.S.; Chapagain, T.; Papadopoulos, Y.A.; Raizada, M.N. Belowground nitrogen transfer fromlegumes to non-legumes under managed herbaceous cropping systems. A review. Agron. Sustain. Dev. 2016 ,36, 1–6.110. Rashid, M.I.; Mujawar, L.H.; Shahzad, T.; Almeelbi, T.; Ismail, I.M.; Oves, M. Bacteria and fungi can contribute to nutrientsbioavailability and aggregate formation in degraded soils. Microbiol. Res. 2016 ,183, 26–41. [CrossRef] [PubMed]111. Nasto, M.K.; Alvarez-Clare, S.; Lekberg, Y.; Sullivan, B.W.; Townsend, A.R.; Cleveland, C.C. Interactions among nitrogen ﬁxationand soil phosphorus acquisition strategies in lowland tropical rain forests. Ecol. Lett. 2014 ,17, 1282–1289. [CrossRef] [PubMed]112. Bona, E.; Lingua, G.; Manassero, P .; Cantamessa, S.; Marsano, F.; Todeschini, V .; Copetta, A.; D’Agostino, G.; Massa, N.; Avidano,L.; et al. AM fungi and PGP pseudomonads increase ﬂowering, fruit production, and vitamin content in strawberry grown at lownitrogen and phosphorus levels. Mycorrhiza 2015 ,25, 181–193. [CrossRef] [PubMed]113. Giovannini, L.; Palla, M.; Agnolucci, M.; Avio, L.; Sbrana, C.; Turrini, A.; Giovannetti, M. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi andassociated microbiota as plant biostimulants, research strategies for the selection of the best performing inocula. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 106. [CrossRef]114. Kumar, A.; Kumar, A.; Patel, H. Role of microbes in phosphorus availability and acquisition by plants. Int. J. Curr. Microbiol. Appl.Sci.2018 ,7, 1344–1347. [CrossRef]115. Youseﬁ, A.A.; Khavazi, K.; Moezi, A.A.; Rejali, F.; Nadian, H.A. Phosphate solubilizing bacteria and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiimpacts on inorganic phosphorus fractions and wheat growth. World Appl. Sci. J. 2011 ,15, 1310–1318.116. Santana, E.B.; Marques, E.L.; Dias, J.C. Effects of phosphate-solubilizing bacteria, native microorganisms, and rock dust onJatropha curcas L. growth. Genet. Mol. Res. 2016 ,15, 15048729. [CrossRef]117. Park, J.; Bolan, N.; Megharaj, M.; Naidu, R. Isolation of Phosphate-Solubilizing Bacteria and Characterization of Their Effectson Lead Immobilization (Special Issue: International Symposium, Challenges to Soil Degradation Towards Sustaining Life andEnvironment, Tokyo Metropolitan University Symposium Series No. 2, 2009). Pedologist 2010 ,53, 67–75.118. Smith, S.E.; Read, D.J. Mycorrhizal Symbiosis , 3rd ed.; Academic Press: London, UK, 2008; pp. 1–637.119. Tawaraya, K.; Naito, M.; Wagatsuma, T. Solubilization of insoluble inorganic phosphate by hyphal exudates of arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi. J. Plant Nutr. 2006 ,29, 657–665. [CrossRef]120. Richardson, A.E.; Barea, J.M.; McNeill, A.M.; Prigent-Combaret, C. Acquisition of phosphorus and nitrogen in the rhizosphereand plant growth promotion by microorganisms. Plant Soil 2009 ,321, 305–339. [CrossRef]121. Musyoka, D.M.; Njeru, E.M.; Nyamwange, M.M.; Maingi, J.M. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Bradyrhizobium co-inoculationenhances nitrogen ﬁxation and growth of green grams ( Vigna radiata L.) under water stress. J. Plant Nutr. 2020 ,43, 1036–1047.[CrossRef]122. Khurshid, M.Y. Potassium as A Key Fertilizer in Combating Climate Change And Malnutrition. 2020. Available online:www.technologytimes.pk. (accessed on 31 December 2020).123. Parmar, P .; Sindhu, S.S. Potassium solubilization by rhizosphere bacteria, inﬂuence of nutritional and environmental conditions. J.Microbiol Res. 2013 ,3, 25–31.124. Kavadia, A.; Omirou, M.; Fasoula, D.; Ioannides, I.M. The importance of microbial inoculants in a climate-changing agriculture ineastern Mediterranean region. Atmosphere 2020 ,11, 1136. [CrossRef]125. Liu, D.; Lian, B.; Dong, H. Isolation of Paenibacillus sp. and assessment of its potential for enhancing mineral weathering.Geomicrobiol. J. 2012 ,29, 413–421. [CrossRef]126. Bhattacharyya, P .N.; Goswami, M.P .; Bhattacharyya, L.H. Perspective of beneﬁcial microbes in agriculture under changingclimatic scenario, A review. J. Phytol. 2016 ,8, 26–41. [CrossRef]127. Novo, L.A.; Castro, P .M.; Alvarenga, P .; da Silva, E. Plant growth–promoting rhizobacteria-assisted phytoremediation of minesoils. In Bio-Geotechnologies for Mine Site Rehabilitation ; Elsevier Inc.: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2018; pp. 281–295.128. Kannahi, M.; Senbagam, N. Studies on siderophore production by microbial isolates obtained from rhizosphere soil and itsantibacterial activity. J. Chem. Pharm. Res. 2014 ,6, 1142–1145.129. Mahmud, A.A.; Upadhyay, S.K.; Srivastava, A.K.; Bhojiya, A.A. Biofertilizers, A Nexus between soil fertility and crop productivityunder abiotic stress. Curr. Res. Environ. Sustain. 2021 ,3, 100063. [CrossRef]130. Saha, M.; Maurya, B.R.; Bahadur, I.; Kumar, A.; Meena, V .S. Can potassium-solubilising bacteria mitigate the potassium problemsin India? In Potassium Solubilizing Microorganisms for Sustainable Agriculture ; Springer: New Delhi, India, 2016; pp. 127–136.131. Landrigan, P .J.; Fuller, R.; Acosta, N.J.R.; Adeyi, O.; Arnold, R.; Basu, N.; Bald é, A.B.; Bertollini, R.; Bose-O’Reilly, S.; Boufford, J.I.The Lancet Commission on pollution and health. Lancet 2018 ,391, 462–512. [CrossRef]132. Khatoon, Z.; Huang, S.; Raﬁque, M.; Fakhar, A.; Kamran, M.A.; Santoyo, G. Unlocking the potential of plant growth-promotingrhizobacteria on soil health and the sustainability of agricultural systems. J. Environ. Manag. 2020 ,273, 111–118. [CrossRef]133. Barnawal, D.; Bharti, N.; Pandey, S.S.; Pandey, A.; Chanotiya, C.S.; Kalra, A. Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria EnhanceWheat Salt and Drought Stress Tolerance by Altering Endogenous Phytohormone Levels and TaCTR1/TaDREB2 Expression.Physiol. Plant 2017 ,161, 502–514. [CrossRef] [PubMed]134. Khan, M.M.; Haque, E.; Paul, N.C.; Khaleque, M.A.; Al-Garni, S.M.; Rahman, M.; Islam, M.T. Enhancement of growth and grainyield of rice in nutrient deﬁcient soils by rice probiotic bacteria. Rice Sci. 2017 ,24, 264–273. [CrossRef]135. Rima, F.S.; Biswas, S.; Sarker, P .K.; Islam, M.D.; Seraj, Z.I. Bacteria endemic to saline coastal belt and their ability to mitigate theeffects of salt stress on rice growth and yields. Ann. Microbiol. 2018 ,68, 525–535. [CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 19 of 20136. Vives-Peris, V .; Gomez-Cadenas, A.; Perez-Clemente, R.M. Salt stress alleviation in citrus plants by plant growth-promotingrhizobacteria Pseudomonas putida and Novosphingobium sp.Plant Cell Rep. 2018 ,37, 1557–1569. [CrossRef] [PubMed]137. Vimal, S.R.; Patel, V .K.; Singh, J.S. Plant growth promoting Curtobacterium albidum strain SRV4, an agriculturally importantmicrobe to alleviate salinity stress in paddy plants. Ecol. Indic. 2019 ,105, 553–562. [CrossRef]138. El-Akhdar, I.; Elsakhawy, T.; Abo-Koura, H.A. Alleviation of salt stress on wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) by plant growthpromoting bacteria strains Bacillus halotolerans MSR-H4 and Lelliottia amnigena MSR-MJ. Adv. Microbiol. 2020 ,20, 44–58.[CrossRef]139. El-Nahrawy, S.; Yassin, M. Response of different cultivars of wheat plants ( Triticum aestivum L.) to inoculation by Azotobacter sp.under salinity stress conditions. J. Adv. Microbiol. 2020 ,20, 59–79. [CrossRef]140. Sapre, S.; Gontia-Mishra, I.; Tiwari, S. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria ameliorates salinity stress in pea (Pisum sativum). J.Plant Growth Regul. 2021 ,41, 647–656. [CrossRef]141. Saravanakumar, D.; Kavino, M.; Raguchander, T.; Subbian, P .; Samiyappan, R. Plant growth promoting bacteria enhance waterstress resistance in green gram plants. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2011 ,33, 203–209. [CrossRef]142. Lim, J.H.; Kim, S.D. Induction of drought stress resistance by multi-functional PGPR Bacillus licheniformis K11 in pepper. PlantPathol. J. 2013 ,29, 201. [CrossRef]143. Castillo, P .; Escalante, M.; Gallardo, M.; Alemano, S.; Abdala, G. Effects of bacterial single inoculation and co-inoculation ongrowth and phytohormone production of sunﬂower seedlings under water stress. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2013 ,35, 2299–2309.[CrossRef]144. Grover, M.; Madhubala, R.; Ali, S.Z.; Yadav, S.K.; Venkateswarlu, B. Inﬂuence of Bacillus spp. strains on seedling growth andphysiological parameters of sorghum under moisture stress conditions. J. Basic Microbiol. 2014 ,54, 951–961. [CrossRef] [PubMed]145. Timmusk, S.; Abd El-Daim, I.A.; Copolovici, L.; Tanilas, T.; Kannaste, A.; Behers, L.; Nevo, E.; Seisenbaeva, G.; Stenstrom,E.; Niinemets, U. Drought-tolerance of wheat improved by rhizosphere bacteria from harsh environments, enhanced biomassproduction and reduced emissions of stress volatiles. PLoS ONE 2014 ,9, e96086. [CrossRef] [PubMed]146. Sarma, R.K.; Saikia, R. Alleviation of drought stress in mung bean by strain Pseudomonas aeruginosa GGRJ. Plant Soil 2014 ,377,111–126. [CrossRef]147. Fan, X.; Hu, H.; Huang, G.; Huang, F.; Li, Y.; Palta, J. Soil inoculation with Burkholderia sp. LD-11 has positive effect on water-useefﬁciency in inbred lines of maize. Plant Soil 2015 ,390, 337–349. [CrossRef]148. Cohen, A.C.; Bottini, R.; Pontin, M.; Berli, F.J.; Moreno, D.; Boccanlandro, H.; Travaglia, C.N.; Piccoli, P .N. Azospirillum brasilenseameliorates the response of Arabidopsis thaliana to drought mainly via enhancement of ABA levels. Physiol. Plant. 2015 ,153,79–90. [CrossRef] [PubMed]149. Verma, P .; Rawat, S. Rhizoremediation of heavy metal-and xenobiotic-contaminated soil, an eco-friendly approach. In Removal ofEmerging Contaminants through Microbial Processes ; Springer: Singapore, 2021; pp. 95–113.150. Chitara, M.K.; Chauhan, S.; Singh, R.P . Bioremediation of Polluted Soil by Using Plant Growth–Promoting Rhizobacteria. InMicrobial Rejuvenation of Polluted Environment ; Springer: Singapore, 2021; pp. 203–226.151. Pires, C.; Franco, A.R.; Pereira, S.I.; Henriques, I.; Correia, A.; Magan, N.; Castro, P .M. Metal (loid)-contaminated soils as a sourceof culturable heterotrophic aerobic bacteria for remediation applications. Geomicrobiol. J. 2017 ,34, 760–768. [CrossRef]152. Mishra, J.; Singh, R.; Arora, N.K. Alleviation of heavy metal stress in plants and remediation of soil by rhizosphere microorganisms.Front. Microbiol. 2017 ,8, 1706. [CrossRef]153. Seneviratne, M.; Seneviratne, G.; Madawala, H.M.; Vithanage, M. Role of rhizospheric microbes in heavy metal uptake by plants.InAgro-Environmental Sustainability ; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2017; pp. 147–163.154. Fomina, M.; Hillier, S.; Charnock, J.M.; Melville, K.; Alexander, I.J.; Gadd, G.M. Role of oxalic acid overexcretion in transformationsof toxic metal minerals by Beauveria caledonica. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2005 ,71, 371–381. [CrossRef]155. Manko-Jurkowska, D.; Ostrowska-Ligeza, E.; Gorska, A.; Głowacka, R. The role of bio surfactants in soil remediation. Zesz. Probl.Post˛ ep ów Nauk. Rol. 2019 ,596, 33–43.156. Yuanfan, H.; Jin, Z.; Qing, H.; Qian, W.; Jiandong, J.; Shunpeng, L. Characterization of a fenpropathrin-degrading strain andconstruction of a genetically engineered microorganism for simultaneous degradation of methyl parathion and fenpropathrin. J.Environ. Manag. 2010 ,91, 2295–2300. [CrossRef]157. Rebello, S.; Nathan, V .K.; Sindhu, R.; Binod, P .; Awasthi, M.K.; Pandey, A. Bioengineered microbes for soil health restoration:Present status and future. Bioengineered 2021 ,12, 12839–12853. [CrossRef] [PubMed]158. Phour, M.; Sindhu, S.S. Mitigating abiotic stress: Microbiome engineering for improving agricultural production and environmen-tal sustainability. Planta 2022 ,256, 1–34. [CrossRef] [PubMed]159. Lau, S.E.; Teo, W.F.A.; Teoh, E.Y.; Tan, B.C. Microbiome engineering and plant biostimulants for sustainable crop improvementand mitigation of biotic and abiotic stresses. Discov. Food 2022 ,2, 1–23. [CrossRef]160. Kumar, N.M.; Muthukumaran, C.; Sharmila, G.; Gurunathan, B. Genetically modiﬁed organisms and its impact on the enhance-ment of bioremediation. In Bioremediation, Applications for Environmental Protection and Management ; Springer: Singapore, 2018;pp. 53–76.161. Bell-Dereske, L.; Takacs-Vesbach, C.; Kivlin, S.N.; Emery, S.M.; Rudgers, J.A. Leaf endophytic fungus interacts with precipitationto alter belowground microbial communities in primary successional dunes. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 2017 ,93, ﬁx036. [CrossRef]Land 2022 ,11, 1887 20 of 20162. Biswas, R.; Sarkar, A. ‘Omics’ tools in soil microbiology, the state of the art. Advances in soil microbiology, Recent trends andfuture prospects. Microorg. Sustain. 2018 ,3, 35–64. [CrossRef]163. Feng, Y.Y. Omics breakthroughs for environmental microbiology. Omics Env. Microbiol. 2013 ,40, 18–33.164. Jansson, J.K.; Hofmockel, K.S. The soil microbiome—from metagenomics to metaphenomics. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2018 ,43,162–168. [CrossRef]165. Zaheer, R.; Noyes, N.; Ortega Polo, R.; Cook, S.R.; Marinier, E.; Van Domselaar, G.; Belk, K.E.; Morley, P .S.; McAllister, T.A. Impactof sequencing depth on the characterization of the microbiome and resistome. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 1. [CrossRef]166. Xie, K.; Deng, Y.; Zhang, X.; Wang, X.; Kang, G.; Bai, L.; Huang, H. Biases in prokaryotic community amplicon sequencing affectedby DNA extraction methods in both saline and non-saline soil. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 1796. [CrossRef]167. Zhang, D.; Wang, C.; Li, X.; Yang, X.; Zhao, L.; Liu, L.; Zhu, C.; Li, R. Linking plant ecological stoichiometry with soil nutrient andbacterial communities in apple orchards. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2018 ,126, 1–10. [CrossRef]168. Coughlan, L.M.; Cotter, P .D.; Hill, C.; Alvarez-Ordonez, A. Biotechnological applications of functional metagenomics in the foodand pharmaceutical industries. Front. Microbiol. 2015 ,6, 672. [CrossRef] [PubMed]169. Fierer, N.; Lauber, C.L.; Ramirez, K.S.; Zaneveld, J.; Bradford, M.A.; Knight, R. Comparative metagenomic, phylogenetic andphysiological analyses of soil microbial communities across nitrogen gradients. ISME J. 2012 ,6, 1007–1017. [CrossRef]170. Lynch, M.D.J.; Neufeld, J.D. Ecology and exploration of the rare biosphere. Nat Rev Microbiol. 2015 ,13, 217–229. [CrossRef]171. Zhou, J.; He, Z.; Yang, Y.; Deng, Y.; Tringe, S.G.; Alvarez-Cohen, L. High-throughput metagenomic technologies for complexmicrobial community analysis, open and closed formats. MBio 2015 ,6, e02288-14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]172. Wooley, J.C.; Godzik, A.; Friedberg, I. A primer on metagenomics. PLOS Comput. Biol. 2010 ,6, e1000667. [CrossRef] [PubMed]173. Shakya, M.; Lo, C.C.; Chain, P .S. Advances and challenges in metatranscriptomic analysis. Front Genet. 2019 ,10, 904. [CrossRef]174. Wolf, J.B. Principles of transcriptome analysis and gene expression quantiﬁcation, an RNA-seq tutorial. Mol. Ecol. Resour. 2013 ,13, 559–572. [CrossRef]175. Callister, S.J.; Fillmore, T.L.; Nicora, C.D.; Shaw, J.B.; Purvine, S.O.; Orton, D.J.; White, R.A., III; Moore, R.J.; Burnet, M.C.;Nakayasu, E.S.; et al. Addressing the challenge of soil metaproteome complexity by improving metaproteome depth of coveragethrough two-dimensional liquid chromatography. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2018 ,125, 290–299. [CrossRef]176. Heaven, M.W.; Benheim, D. Soil microbial metabolomics. In Microbial Metabolomics, Applications in Clinical, Environmental, andIndustrial Microbiology ; Beale, D.J., Kouremenos, K.A., Palombo, E.A., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016; pp. 147–198.177. Nesme, J.; Achouak, W.; Agathos, S.N.; Bailey, M.; Baldrian, P .; Brunel, D.; Frostegard, A.; Heulin, T.; Jansson, J.K.; Jurkevitch, E.;et al. Back to the future of soil metagenomics. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 73. [CrossRef]