Citation: Geddes-McAlister, J.Systems Biology in Fungal Research.J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 478. https://doi.org/10.3390/jof8050478Received: 26 April 2022Accepted: 2 May 2022Published: 4 May 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the author.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).FungiJournal of EditorialSystems Biology in Fungal ResearchJennifer Geddes-McAlisterDepartment of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada;jgeddesm@uoguelph.caAbstract: The beauty within biological systems can be uncovered using a variety of advancedtechnological platforms for in-depth proﬁling. Improvements in genome, transcriptome, proteome,and metabolome investigations, as well as data integration, are moving our understanding of diversebiological systems forward at a rapid rate. Combined with publicly available and customizablebioinformatics tools, we comprehensively proﬁle biological changes under a plethora of circumstances.For fungal pathogens innovation is driven by our ability to explore mechanisms of antifungalresistance, reveal new relationships and interactions between a host and pathogen, improve ourcharacterization of virulence determinants, and discover new antifungal targets. In this SpecialIssue dedicated to “Systems biology in fungal research”, we explore each of these factors and more,highlighting the multitude of avenues and strategies available to study fungal pathogens and howthey impact our environment.Keywords: fungal pathogenesis; proteomics; genomics; transcriptomics; metabolomics; multi-OMICs;host; diseaseThe exploration of environmental sources (e.g., invertebrates, plants, microbes) fornovel compounds with properties as biocontrol agents is a rapidly expanding area of study.For instance, biocontrol agents can impact disease management and progression, promotionof fungal growth, and mitigation of climate change. The discovery of enzymatic inhibitorsfrom the environment with activity against fungal extracellular and intracellular proteasesrepresents potential new antifungal options that may reduce virulence without supportingthe evolution of resistance [ 1]. For a systems overview of proteases and their perspectiveinhibitors, mass spectrometry-based proteomics combined with enzymatic assays can detectand characterize the relationship between enzyme production and inhibition. Similarly,within the natural environment, a bacterium, Lactiplantibacillus plantarum , was evaluatedfor its antifungal activity against Ascosphaera apis , an entomopathogenic fungus causingchalkbrood disease in honeybees [ 2]. Beneﬁcial antagonistic properties against A. apis wereobserved and the bacterium was proposed as a probiotic in honeybee nutrition to preventthe development of disease. Genomics and transcriptomics approaches can be used toselect bacterial strains with beneﬁcial properties, along with proteomics and metabolomicsto assist with elucidating mechanisms of action for the perspective probiotics and providenew insight into the relationship between the host (i.e., honeybee), pathogen (i.e., A. apis ),and treatment (i.e., L. plantarum ).Other opportunities to leverage a beneﬁcial relationship between microbe and hostincludes assessment of bioprotective fungal endophytes within global crops. For exam-ple, the vertically transmitted fungal endophyte, Epichloë spp. produces alkaloids thatprotect grasses from herbivory and confer protection from drought and nutrient stress [ 3].For perennial ryegrass ( Lolium perenne ), a cool-season grass with global distribution forits roles in carbon ﬁxation, turfgrass applications, and fodder for livestock, the interac-tion with endophytes may protect the grass from rising atmospheric CO 2associated withclimate change. In the study, integration of untargeted metabolomics proﬁling with bottom-up mass spectrometry-based proteomics, deﬁned the endophyte-speciﬁc responses ofJ. Fungi 2022 ,8, 478. https://doi.org/10.3390/jof8050478 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jofJ. Fungi 2022 ,8, 478 2 of 4L. perenne under normal (400 ppm) vs. elevated (800 ppm) CO 2levels that inﬂuenced plantbiomass through the activation of general plant defense responses. A complementary studyexplored endophyte-strain-dependent chemical phenotypes in L. perenne using untargetedmetabolomics [ 4]. Metabolome proﬁling of root exudates (with roles in nutrient acquisition,microbial associations, and below-ground defense) under the inﬂuence of four Epichloëspp. strains relative to an endophyte-free control deﬁned chemical changes in both primaryand secondary metabolites of the plant. Speciﬁcally, two compounds were each stronglyassociated with a speciﬁc-endophyte treatment, supporting changes in the chemical compo-sition of root exudates, which may confer beneﬁcial outcomes for the plant (e.g., improvednutrient uptake, enhanced defense responses).Beyond grasses, the application of endophytes to prevent disease in fruit, includingapple replant disease, is an important global area of study. Recently, an antagonistic endo-phytic fungus was collected from the roots of healthy apple trees and assessed for inhibitionof fungal pathogens, such as Fusarium spp. [ 5]. The study identiﬁed Trichoderma asperellum6S-2 as an effective biocontrol agent against disease in apples through production ofprotease, amylase, cellulase, and laccase, which are important for pathogen inhibition.Application of fermented extract from the 6S-2 endophyte demonstrated antifungal activity(e.g., the inhibition of Fusarium spp. hyphae formation) through the production of volatilesubstances, such as alkanes, alcohols, furanones, and 6-PP , which were identiﬁed by gaschromatography–mass spectrometry. Furthermore, the application of an endophytic sporesuspension on replanted apple orchard soil within a growth pot reduced plant oxidativedamage and promoted plant growth, supporting 6S-2 as an effective biocontrol againstFusarium spp. in apple disease. The same research group furthered our understandingofT. asperellum 6S-2 as a biocontrol agent by producing a fungal fertilizer and assessingglobal impact on the soil microbial community and seedling growth [ 6]. Following fertilizerapplication, the study observed a signiﬁcant change in soil structure with a decrease in theabundance of environmental fungi (e.g., Fusarium spp., Cryptococcus spp.), compared toan increase in abundance of environmental bacteria (e.g., Bacillus spp., Streptomyces spp.).These community shifts also impacted soil nutrient availability, and fertilizer applicationled to increased amounts of alkenes, ethyl esters, and citrullines in the root exudates ofapple seedlings, which positively correlated with the abundance of 6S-2. Taken together,these studies demonstrate the interconnectivity of the environmental sources of biocontrolagents and their potential for antifungal properties to promote the health of globally im-portant biological systems, including honeybees, grasses, and fruit. The use of systemsbiology to identify and characterize these biocontrol agents, as well as proﬁle their impacton the community, is critical to advance our understanding of biological mechanisms andpromote safe and effective treatment options.An important source of fungal pathogens causing disease within humans is from theenvironment, as is the case for Cryptococcus spp. Importantly, the exposure of environ-mental pathogens to fungicides in the ﬁeld often inﬂuences the evolution of antifungalresistance, providing hurdles for the treatment of such infections within the clinic [ 7].This relationship between the environment and clinic drives the need for new treatmentstrategies. For Cryptococcus spp. and other human fungal pathogens, such as Candida spp.andAspergillus spp. the ability to cause disease is driven by a combination of virulencefactors and manipulation of the host. Post-translational modiﬁcations (PTMs), which arewell-deﬁned using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, allow fungal pathogens to mod-ulate protein production and activity during infection to respond to stress and promotefungal survival [ 8]. For example, the regulation of heat shock proteins by PTMs (e.g.,acetylation) are important targets for antifungal drug design, given their roles in metabolicnetworks that regulate proper protein folding, growth inhibition, enzymatic activity, andthermotolerance [9] . Characterization of heat shock protein networks in human fungalpathogens is well underway for the detection of interactions within the pathogen, and be-tween the pathogen and host, that regulate pathogenesis and tolerance to antifungals. ThisJ. Fungi 2022 ,8, 478 3 of 4approach suggests a promising strategy for novel antifungal therapy through disruption ofheat shock proteins.Other strategies used by fungi to regulate the host include response and adaptation tochanging environmental conditions. For instance, upon antibiotic treatment, which causesdysbiosis of the gastrointestinal tract, a disruption in the commensal relationship betweenthe host and fungal pathogen, Candida albicans , can be observed. One effect is a signiﬁcantincrease in the production of a major bile acid (i.e., taurocholic acid,) which enhancessusceptibility of mice to C. albicans infection by inducing colonization and disseminationof the fungi throughout the host [ 10]. The study also showed a change in the commensalbacterial population within the gastrointestinal tract of the host upon taurocholic acidtreatment, which supports the regulatory role commensal bacteria play in promoting hosthomeostasis in the presence of fungal pathogens. Further exploration using multi-OMICstools may provide new insight into how the exposure of fungi and bacteria to taurocholicacid promotes fungal adaptation and suggests opportunities to reverse such changes as anovel therapeutic option.Considering such fungal adaptation strategies to changing environments and theincreasing rates of antifungal resistance on a global scale, new methods to identify noveldruggable targets with speciﬁcity for fungi are needed. Recently, a genome-scale metabolicmodel of C. albicans was developed and validated for the identiﬁcation of druggable sitesthrough the comparison between known drug targets and the prediction of gene essentialityin conditions mimicking the human host [ 11]. The modeling of metabolism and metabolicnetworks is a powerful strategy to build upon our fundamental knowledge of fungalpathogens and to explore the role of metabolite production within the biological system.ForAspergillus niger , altered metabolite production was observed upon regulation of a novelbiosynthetic gene cluster associated with transcriptional regulation, which was identiﬁedfollowing comparative genomics analyses [ 12]. The anchoring of the biosynthetic genecluster by a nonribosomal peptide synthetase is notable due to bioactive roles (e.g., toxins,siderophores, pigments, antibiotic, cytostatics, immunosuppressants, or anticancer agents).Similarly, another biosynthetic gene cluster in Aspergillus terreus , encoding for monacolinJ, was integrated into the A. niger genome to promote synthesis of the precursor of statindrugs (e.g., lovastatin, simvastatin) used to lower cholesterol [ 13]. This manipulation of thefungal system for optimal compound production supports advancement within industrialfermentation processes for food and medicine. Further engagement of such biologicalsystems with systems-level proﬁling using multi-OMICs tools is a promising strategy tooptimize and improve the engineering potential for diverse beneﬁcial outcomes.Overall, this Special Issue highlights the dynamic and diverse applications of OMICstools, along with their potential, to advance our foundational understanding of fungalbiology. Furthermore, such advancements provide great beneﬁt to many facets of life,including our environment, food sources, medical therapies, and industrial productionsystems, encouraging the continued exploration and integration of knowledge generatedfrom diverse datasets and biological systems.Funding: This work is supported, in part, with funds from the Banting Research Foundation–Jarislowsky Discovery Award, Canadian Foundation for Innovation (JELF 38798), New FrontiersResearch Fund (NFRFE-2019-00425), Canadian Institutes for Health Research (Project Grant), and theOntario Ministry and Agriculture and Rural Affairs (UofG2018-3290).Acknowledgments: I thank all authors who have contributed to this Special Issue.Conﬂicts of Interest: The author declares no conﬂict of interest.J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 478 4 of 4References1. Gutierrez-Gongora, D.; Geddes-McAlister, J. From Naturally-Sourced Protease Inhibitors to New Treatments for Fungal Infections.J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 1016. [CrossRef] [PubMed]2. Iorizzo, M.; Testa, B.; Ganassi, S.; Lombardi, S.J.; Ianiro, M.; Letizia, F.; Succi, M.; Tremonte, P .; Vergalito, F.; Cozzolino, A.; et al.Probiotic Properties and Potentiality of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum Strains for the Biological Control of Chalkbrood Disease. J.Fungi 2021 ,7, 379. [CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Geddes-McAlister, J.; Sukumaran, A.; Patchett, A.; Hager, H.A.; Dale, J.C.M.; Roloson, J.L.; Prudhomme, N.; Bolton, K.;Muselius, B.; Powers, J.; et al. Examining the Impacts of CO 2Concentration and Genetic Compatibility on PerennialRyegrass— Epichloë festucae VarLolii Interactions. J. Fungi 2020 ,6, 360. [CrossRef] [PubMed]4. Patchett, A.; Newman, J.A. Comparison of Plant Metabolites in Root Exudates of Lolium perenne Infected with Different Strains ofthe Fungal Endophyte Epichloë festucae Var. Lolii. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 148. [CrossRef] [PubMed]5. Wang, H.; Zhang, R.; Duan, Y.; Jiang, W.; Chen, X.; Shen, X.; Yin, C.; Mao, Z. The Endophytic Strain Trichoderma asperellum 6s-2:An Efﬁcient Biocontrol Agent against Apple Replant Disease in China and a Potential Plant-Growth-Promoting Fungus. J. Fungi2021 ,7, 1050. [CrossRef] [PubMed]6. Wang, H.; Zhang, R.; Mao, Y.; Jiang, W.; Chen, X.; Shen, X.; Yin, C.; Mao, Z. Effects of Trichoderma asperellum 6S-2 on Apple TreeGrowth and Replanted Soil Microbial Environment. J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 63. [CrossRef] [PubMed]7. Bermas, A.; Geddes-McAlister, J. Combatting the Evolution of Anti-Fungal Resistance in Cryptococcus neoformans .Mol. Microbiol.2020 ,114, 721–734. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8. Retanal, C.; Ball, B.; Geddes-McAlister, J. Post-Translational Modiﬁcations Drive Success and Failure of Fungal–Host Interactions.J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 124. [CrossRef] [PubMed]9. Horianopoulos, L.C.; Kronstad, J.W. Chaperone Networks in Fungal Pathogens of Humans. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 209. [CrossRef][PubMed]10. Thangamani, S.; Monasky, R.; Keun Lee, J.; Antharam, V .; Hogenesch, H.; Hazbun, T.R.; Jin, Y.; Gu, H.; Guo, G.L. Bile AcidRegulates the Colonization and Dissemination of Candida albicans from the Gastrointestinal Tract by Controlling Host DefenseSystem and Microbiota. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 1030. [CrossRef] [PubMed]11. Viana, R.; Dias, O.; Lagoa, D.; Galocha, M.; Rocha, I.; Teixeira, M.C. Genome-Scale Metabolic Model of the Human PathogenCandida albicans : A Promising Platform for Drug Target Prediction. J. Fungi 2020 ,6, 171. [CrossRef] [PubMed]12. Evdokias, G.; Semper, C.; Mora-Ochomogo, M.; di Falco, M.; Nguyen, T.T.M.; Savchenko, A.; Tsang, A.; Benoit-Gelber, I.Identiﬁcation of a Novel Biosynthetic Gene Cluster in Aspergillus niger Using Comparative Genomics. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 374.[CrossRef] [PubMed]13. Zeng, X.; Zheng, J.; Lu, F.; Pan, L.; Wang, B. Heterologous Synthesis of Monacolin J by Reconstructing Its Biosynthetic GeneCluster in Aspergillus niger .J. Fungi 2022 ,8, 407. [CrossRef] [PubMed]