Citation: Mishra, A.K.;Sudalaimuthuasari, N.; Hazzouri, K.M.;Saeed, E.E.; Shah, I.; Amiri, K.M.A.Tapping into Plant–MicrobiomeInteractions through the Lens ofMulti-Omics Techniques. Cells 2022 ,11, 3254. https://doi.org/10.3390/cells11203254Academic Editors: Sara Rinalducci,María Peña-Chilet and Camilla HillReceived: 19 August 2022Accepted: 29 September 2022Published: 17 October 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).cellsReviewTapping into Plant–Microbiome Interactions through the Lensof Multi-Omics TechniquesAjay Kumar Mishra1, Naganeeswaran Sudalaimuthuasari1, Khaled M. Hazzouri1, Esam Eldin Saeed1,Iltaf Shah2,*and Khaled M. A. Amiri1,3,*1Khalifa Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, United Arab Emirates University,Al Ain P .O. Box 15551, United Arab Emirates2Department of Chemistry (Biochemistry), College of Science, United Arab Emirates University,Al Ain P .O. Box 15551, United Arab Emirates3Department of Biology, College of Science, United Arab Emirates University,Al Ain P .O. Box 15551, United Arab Emirates*Correspondence: altafshah@uaeu.ac.ae (I.S.); k.amiri@uaeu.ac.ae (K.M.A.A.); Tel.: +971-37135624 (K.M.A.A.)Abstract: This review highlights the pivotal role of root exudates in the rhizosphere, especially the in-teractions between plants and microbes and between plants and plants. Root exudates determine soilnutrient mobilization, plant nutritional status, and the communication of plant roots with microbes.Root exudates contain diverse specialized signaling metabolites (primary and secondary). The spatialbehavior of these metabolites around the root zone strongly inﬂuences rhizosphere microorganismsthrough an intimate compatible interaction, thereby regulating complex biological and ecologicalmechanisms. In this context, we reviewed the current understanding of the biological phenomenon ofallelopathy, which is mediated by phytotoxic compounds (called allelochemicals) released by plantsinto the soil that affect the growth, survival, development, ecological infestation, and intensiﬁcationof other plant species and microbes in natural communities or agricultural systems. Advances innext-generation sequencing (NGS), such as metagenomics and metatranscriptomics, have openedthe possibility of better understanding the effects of secreted metabolites on the composition andactivity of root-associated microbial communities. Nevertheless, understanding the role of secretorymetabolites in microbiome manipulation can assist in designing next-generation microbial inoculantsfor targeted disease mitigation and improved plant growth using the synthetic microbial communities(SynComs) tool. Besides a discussion on different approaches, we highlighted the advantages of con-jugation of metabolomic approaches with genetic design (metabolite-based genome-wide associationstudies) in dissecting metabolome diversity and understanding the genetic components of metaboliteaccumulation. Recent advances in the ﬁeld of metabolomics have expedited comprehensive andrapid proﬁling and discovery of novel bioactive compounds in root exudates. In this context, wediscussed the expanding array of metabolomics platforms for metabolome proﬁling and their integra-tion with multivariate data analysis, which is crucial to explore the biosynthesis pathway, as well asthe regulation of associated pathways at the gene, transcript, and protein levels, and ﬁnally their rolein determining and shaping the rhizomicrobiome.Keywords: plant–microbe interactions; rhizosphere; root exudates; primary metabolites; secondarymetabolites; allelopathy; plant microbiome; metagenomics; metatranscriptomics; metabolomics;sustainable agriculture; ecology1. IntroductionThe burgeoning world population is predicted to reach 8.5 billion by 2025, roughlyrepresenting a one-percent increase [ 1]. This alarming condition underscores the need torapidly and continuously increase plant–based food, feed, and ﬁber production. Foodproduction can be augmented by expanding the cultivation area and improving the yieldCells 2022 ,11, 3254. https://doi.org/10.3390/cells11203254 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/cellsCells 2022 ,11, 3254 2 of 20per unit area sown by reducing pre- and post-harvest losses and implementing effectiveweed control strategies. Growers resort to herbicides as one method of minimizing weedinfestation and protecting their crops. Many factors contribute to an effective herbicide pro-gram, including timing of application, use of total labeled rates, appropriate adjuvants, andefﬁcient spray application [ 2]. Improper or continuous applications of similar herbicidesto the same agricultural land over several years and the number of herbicides used forweed control are some factors that can lead to herbicide resistance [ 2]. In this context, thepotential of biologically active plant root exudates in the interaction (intra- or inter-species)and recruitment of microbial communities could be exploited as environmentally friendlystrategies for crop growth and protection against weeds, insects, and pathogens.Plants are colonized by various microorganisms, both below and above ground simul-taneously, with mutualistic beneﬁts that not only assist each other in obtaining resourcesor services, but also serve as a vital factor in shaping the dynamics of interacting popula-tions [ 3]. In plants, diverse microbial communities have been identiﬁed in the phyllosphere(epiphytes) [ 4], the rhizosphere [ 5], and the endosphere (endophytes) [ 6]. Among them,the rhizosphere microbial community is a complex with a dynamic spatiotemporal struc-ture (a phenomenon known as the “rhizosphere effect”) that rapidly adapts in responseto ﬂuctuations in metabolites exuded by plant roots and to a variety of environmentalfactors, including soil composition, temperature, and vegetation, which in turn generatea considerable inﬂuence on nutritional status and growth of plants [ 7]. The majority ofroot exudates include low-molecular weight primary metabolites (sugars, amino acids, andorganic acids) [ 8] and secondary metabolites (alkaloids, cyanogenic glycosides, ﬂavonoids,and terpenoids) [ 9], which have been shown to play pivotal roles in various biologicalprocesses such as mobilization and acquisition of nutrients [ 10], qualitative and quanti-tative composition of the microbiome in their immediate vicinity [ 11], inhibition of thegrowth of competing plant species, and governing plant survival under abiotic and bioticstresses [ 12]. Root exudation is a major source of organic carbon in the soil, accountingfor up to 30–60% of total photosynthetic production [ 13]. Exudates can therefore serve asa signiﬁcant energy source for soil microorganisms, which are frequently carbon-limited.This results in a process known as “soil priming”, in which the microbial communitybecomes more active and releases nutrients crucial for plant health [ 14], similar to probioticbacteria in the digestive system of vertebrates.Furthermore, there is substantial evidence that root exudates can improve soil stabilityand resistance to mechanical and hydraulic stresses. The previous study demonstrated thatincorporating maize root and chia seed exudates increased aggregate stability, whereasbarley root exudates decreased soil tensile strength and aggregate stability [ 15]. In orderto facilitate root extension and penetration into the soil, the root exudates also reduce thefractional contact between root surfaces and soil particles [16].The quantity, quality, and composition of root exudates depend on various endogenous(species, varieties, developmental stages, and functional characteristics of plants) andexogenous biotic (rhizosphere microbial community, herbivores, and neighboring plants)and abiotic factors (temperature, light and water, soil texture, soil pH, soil organic matter,moisture, and nutrient supply) [17]. In rice, for example, exudation rates are lowest at theseedling stage, increase until ﬂowering, and then decrease at maturity [ 18]. A signiﬁcantdecrease in the composition of root exudates was observed in two different Lupin species(L. albus cv. Multolupa and L. luteus cv Tremosilla) from ﬂowering to fruiting stages [ 19].Similarly, in wheat and sorghum, root exudation decreases with plant age and increasesin response to soil stress caused by drought, compaction, and nutrient deﬁciency [ 18]. Arecent study showed the impact of different exogenous factors on the composition of polarand semi-polar metabolites of root exudate in perennial grass and forb species with higherchemical richness [20].The quantitative and qualitative composition of exudates depends on root surfacemorphology (periderm thickness, suberization, root hairs density and location, mycorrhizalhyphae, etc.), root system architecture (such as root length, branching, number and lengthCells 2022 ,11, 3254 3 of 20of lateral roots) and the actively growing root system [ 21]. Exudation compositions dependon the root zone. The root cap, root hair cells, and the zone behind the root tip all activelyparticipate in the exudation process, followed by stellar and cortical cells [ 22]. All thesevariables interact to inﬂuence root exudation and microbial community composition.This review article aims to provide, for the ﬁrst time, a sweeping view of roots–rhizosphere interactions, as well as plant–plant interactions governed by multipartitechemical communications involving the exudation of specialized primary and secondarymetabolites, including allelochemicals. Moreover, we attempt to provide insights intovarious omics approaches such as genomics, metagenomics, and microbial genome-wideassociation studies, including metabolomics and multivariate data analysis in the contextof plant signaling metabolite discovery and identiﬁcation of causal relations of plantswith microbial communities. In this concise review, we have attempted to showcase themost important past and recent discoveries in the ﬁeld of plant–microbe and plant–plantinteraction at the interface of secreted metabolites and cutting-edge technologies to betterunderstanding the mechanism, which is indispensable for researchers working in plant–microbe interactions.2. Primary Metabolite: Chemical Currency with Multipartite FunctionPlants require essential mineral nutrients such as phosphorus (P), nitrogen (N), potas-sium (K), and sulfur (S) for the biosynthesis of proteins, enzymes, vitamins, chlorophyll,nucleotides, and other metabolites. Plants absorb up to 90% of organically bound min-eral nutrients from soil with the help of microorganisms (e.g., symbionts) and transfer30–60% of their photosynthetic products (about 5 billion tons of carbon per year) to therhizosphere via root exudation of primary metabolites [ 13]. The allocation of the majorityof photosynthesized carbon to root exudates remains ambiguous. According to currentecological theories, photosynthesized carbon exudation serves as a chemical currency andpromotes plant productivity by enhancing nutrient acquisition and water-holding capacity,facilitating efﬁcient drainage and aeration, and providing substrates for microbes [ 23].In addition to improving soil health, the allocation of ﬁxed carbon to the root exudationprocess reduces global warming caused by rising CO 2levels in the atmosphere [ 24]. Sugarand organic compound exudation into the rhizosphere can stimulate the decompositionof previously stabilized inherited soil organic matter and fosters nutrient acquisition andsoil aggregation [ 25]. In contrast, exudation of amino acids contributes to the structure ofrhizospheric microbial communities, shaping root system architecture, and is critical fornutrient mobility throughout the plant’s vegetative cycle [26].The mechanism of primary metabolite exudation from roots is still equivocal. Accord-ing to a recently proposed concept, primary metabolites are released into the soil through asource–sink-driven diffusion process mediated by the modulation of nutrient concentrationgradients between plants and the soil environment or via efﬂux carriers, rather than as anuncontrolled passive leakage [ 10]. The majority of the primary metabolite ﬂux occurs nearthe root tip, where a cluster of undifferentiated cells promotes metabolite diffusion intothe soil depending on the source level (phloem loading and vertical transport) or at thesink level (phloem unloading, metabolism, exudation, and microbial consumption) [ 10].Moreover, transcriptional regulation and post-translational modiﬁcation of speciﬁc efﬂuxtransporters and channels facilitate the ﬁne-tuned exudation of sugars, amino acids, andorganic acids [ 27]. Over the past decades, several candidate efﬂux membrane transportersinvolved in the exudation of primary metabolites such as organic acids MATE/citrate trans-porters [ 28], sugars (SWEET sugar transporter family [ 29]), and amino acids (GlutamineDumper1 [ 30], Cationic Amino Acid Transporter family, Lysine and Histidine Transporter 1 ,Proline Transporter 2, Neutral Amino acid Transport system 2) [ 31] have been discoveredand characterized. The phloem sap contains a variety of other primary metabolites, andour current understanding of their role in the plant–microbe interaction and the role ofthe associated efﬂux transporter system is still limited. Primary metabolites, includinghormone trafﬁcking, depend on plasmodesmata and membrane transport proteins. InCells 2022 ,11, 3254 4 of 20this realm, synchronous capture of eukaryotic RNAs with polyA tails in conjunction withtranscriptomic proﬁling at the single-cell level could provide insight into their role andallocation. Furthermore, genetically encoded ﬂuorescent compartment-targeted biosen-sors will allow for the dissection of spatial dynamics of primary metabolites, transporteractivities, and biophysical parameters within cells and across membranes [32].3. Secondary Metabolite: Microbial and Plant Community Modulator TraitPlant secondary metabolites (PSMs) are a diverse group of compounds derived eitherfrom primary metabolites or intermediates of primary metabolite biosynthetic pathwaysthrough the sequential action of specialized enzymes regulated by phytohormones andsignaling molecules. Based on chemical structure and biosynthetic pathway, PSMs arecategorized into three major classes: (i) terpenoids (terpenes, sterols, glycosides, saponins,carotenoids, and steroid), (ii) polyphenols (ﬂavonoids, phenolic acids, tannins, stilbenes,lignans, and coumarins. etc.), and (iii) nitrogen-containing compounds (amines, alkaloids,cyanogenic glycosides, and glucosinolates) [ 33]. Unlike primary metabolites, PSMs do notdirectly contribute to the primary functions of growth and development. Nevertheless, theyplay an essential role in plant response to various abiotic and biotic stresses, undergroundinteractions, shaping microbial communities, communication (microbe–microbe, plant–microbe, and plant–plant), and adaptation [34].Previous research on legume metabolites and their mediated interactions providedthe best model for the interaction between PSM and microbes. Several studies havedocumented the signiﬁcant abundance (>70%) of rhizobia in the root microbiome oflegumes (such as beans, peas, peanuts, chickpeas, lentils, lupins, and soybeans) thanin bulk soil [ 35,36]. The function of certain ﬂavonoids (polyphenolic PSM) in establishingmutualistic relationships with nitrogen-ﬁxing Rhizobium spp., actinorhizal, and arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi has been extensively studied in the legume family [ 37–39]. Depend-ing on their structure, ﬂavonoids can stimulate or inhibit rhizobial nod gene expression,control nodule development and differentiation, and cause signiﬁcant alteration in micro-biome assembly and composition in the rhizosphere and rhizoplane by interfering withco-occurrence interactions and substantially depleting root microbes [ 39]. In addition, thesilencing experiment designed to silence gene encoding chalcone synthase in Medicagotruncatula root showed that ﬂavonoids are also involved in the local accumulation of auxinat the nodule formation site for initiation of nodule primordia [ 40]. Legume roots secreteﬂavonoids/isoﬂavones as signaling compounds to entice nitrogen-ﬁxing bacteria suchasRhizobium ,Bradyrhizobium ,Neorhizobium ,Allorhizobium ,Azorhizobium ,Mesorhizobium ,Pararhizobium , and Trinickia to entrench host plants through root hairs and subsequentlymultiply and stimulate the formation of root nodules [ 35,41]. In this process, the diversityand concentration of ﬂavonoids in the root exudates of legume species form the ﬁne-tunedmolecular signal and thus act as a selection factor for determining symbiosis speciﬁcity(compatible or incompatible) in plants. For instance, the isoﬂavonoid medicarpin se-creted by Medicago and Trifolium species exhibits an antagonistic effect on the growth ofcertain bacterial strains such as Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Mesorhizobium loti and apositive chemotaxis on Rhizobium melioti [42]. Similarly, the symbiotic compatibility or non-compatibility of Frankia spp. depends on the ﬂavonoid composition of the fruit exudates ofthe actinorhizal plant Myrica gale [43].Terpenoids represent the largest group of specialized PSM. Besides their essentialfunctions in ecological adaptation, defense, growth, and development, they bestow thechemical language to plants to communicate with bacterial and fungal communities [ 44].The activities of triterpenoids in establishing rhizosphere communities were demonstratedinA. thaliana , where mutant lines defective in triterpene and sesterterpene biosynthesisformed distinct root microbiome communities compared to the wild type [ 45]. The propor-tional relationship of alkaloids inﬂuencing the composition and diversity of endophyticbacterial communities has been shown in the root, stem, leaf, and fruit of Macleaya cor-data [46]. During host colonization, ﬁlamentous fungi and oomycetes release a diverseCells 2022 ,11, 3254 5 of 20array of glycoside hydrolases (GHs) as virulence factors (effectors) onto their cell surfacesand the surrounding extracellular environment, which plants utilize during host microbialcolonization [ 47]. In addition to the aforementioned soluble secondary metabolites, plantsalso release diverse volatile organic compounds (such as phenylpropanoids, terpenoids,benzenoids, and -caryophyllenes) that diffuse through the air- and water-ﬁlled poresin soil interactions, which further interconnect the plant rhizobiomes through microbialmetapopulation networks [ 48]. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) predominantly inﬂu-ence soil microbiomes, and contrasting differences in their richness in soil may be correlatedwith the magnitude of the signal produced by the VOC [ 49]. Although volatile chemicalscan promote intra- and interspeciﬁc interactions and alter microbial and plant ﬁtness, itis still unclear how microbial communities inﬂuence VOC signaling as it travels throughthe soils.Certain classes of secondary metabolites are classiﬁed as allelochemicals. Based onthe biochemical pathways, the chemical structure and properties of allelochemicals canbe classiﬁed into 14 categories: (i) water-soluble organic acids (straight-chain saturatedprimary alcohols, aliphatic aldehydes, and ketones), (ii) ,-unsaturated aromatic lactones,(iii) long-chain fatty acids and polyacetylenes, (iv) quinines (benzoquinone, anthraquinone,and complex quinones), (v) simple phenols, benzoic acid, and its derivatives, (vi) cinnamicacid and its derivatives, (vii) coumarin, (viii) ﬂavonoids, (ix) tannins, (x) steroids andterpenoids (sesquiterpene lactones, diterpenes and triterpenoids), (xi) amino acids andpeptides, (xii) alkaloids and cyanohydrins, (xiii) sulﬁdes and glucosinolates, and (xiv)purines and nucleosides [ 50]. A growing body of research has implicated the role of plant-derived allelochemicals in various interactions, including microbe–microbe, plant–microbeand plant–plant [51,52].Differences in microbial density have been observed in different parts of the rhizo-sphere and correlate with the amount and composition of allelochemicals released byspecialized root cells [ 17]. The composition and quantity of compounds synthesized inthe plant and exuded from the root are under the genetic control of the plant. Therefore,changes in the composition of root exudates within and among plant species signiﬁcantlymodulate density, composition, and biological activity of microbial communities, resultingin plant–dependent selection of microbial communities [ 53,54]. Although the mechanismsby which these compounds affect the microbial community have remained equivocal. Agrowing body of research has shown that the amount and form of carbon (soluble sugars),amino acids, or secondary metabolites that the plant releases into the soil, including al-lelochemicals, create a niche for speciﬁc rhizospheric microbes, which in turn may havea feedback effect on the colonization of conspeciﬁc and heterospeciﬁc microbes growingin the same soil [ 55]. Plants exert maximum selective pressure on the microbial popula-tion near the root surface or in the root interior. Thus, allelochemical-mediated selectivepressure shapes community composition and microbial diversity in the rhizosphere in aplant-dependent manner [55].The speciﬁcity of the rhizosphere microbiome of A. thaliana has been linked to dif-ferences in exudate proﬁles [ 56]. The roots of wheat ( Triticum aestivum and T. durum ),rapeseed ( Brassica napus ), maize ( Zea mays ), and barrel clover ( Medicago truncatula ) harbordifferent bacterial communities owing to differences in the chemical composition of theirrespective root exudates [ 57]. Similarly, signiﬁcant variations in the bacterial community(in terms of richness, relative abundance, and diversity) were found in the rhizosphereof 27 inbred maize lines, which correlated with differences in root exudate proﬁles [ 58].Plant allelochemicals not only inﬂuence the rhizospheric microbial community but can alsodrive and shape the selection of soil microbes. For instance, the application of p-coumaricacid, a well-known allelochemical, to soil-grown cucumber seedlings enhanced the relativerhizosphere bacterial ( Betaproteobacteria ,Firmicutes ,Gammaproteobacteria ) and fungal ( Sordar-iomycete and Zygomycota) community abundances and decreased the relative abundancesof bacterial taxa such as Deltaproteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Verrucomicrobia and fungaltaxon Pezizomycete in the cucumber rhizosphere. It increased the population density of aCells 2022 ,11, 3254 6 of 20soil-borne pathogen ( Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum ) of cucumber [ 59]. Anotherstudy showed that allelochemicals released by plants of the Brassicaceae, CaryophyllaceaeChenopodiaceae, and Cyperaceae families suppressed fungal pathogen spores germinationand disrupted symbiotic associations between mycorrhizal fungi with nearby growinghost plants [60].The soil microbiota plays an essential role in determining the structure and dynamics ofplant communities and can profoundly inﬂuence ecosystem invasion by exotic plant species.Previous research on invasive plants has revealed a wide variety of plant–soil interactionsthat might enhance invasiveness in a new range [ 61–63]. Two distinct mechanisms bywhich plant–soil community interactions inﬂuence native plant dominance and exoticplant invasiveness have been proposed [ 64]. First, exotic plants can manipulate the localsoil biota by increasing pathogen levels or disrupting root symbiont communities. Forexample, chemical compounds (allyl isothiocyanate) released by the invasive species garlicmustard ( Alliaria petiolate ) disrupt the association of ecto- and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiwith roots of native plants [ 65]. Root exudates of the tropical invasive weed, Chromolaenaodorata, disrupt the soil microbiota and promote the accumulation of the pathogenic fungusFusarium semitectum in its rhizosphere, negatively affecting the growth of neighboringnative plant species [ 66]. In an alternative scenario, native soil communities might beunable to detoxify allelochemicals of exotic plant species or might render them even moretoxic through microbial-mediated conversion (Figure 1).Cells 2022 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  6 of 20   allelochemicals not on ly influence the rhizospheric microbial community but can also drive and shape the selection of soil microbes. For instance, the application of p-coumaric acid, a well -known allelochemical, to soil -grown cucumber seedlings enhanced the rela-tive rhizosphere  bacterial ( Betaproteobacteria , Firmicutes , Gammaproteobacteria ) and fungal (Sordariomycete and Zygomycota) community abundances and decreased the relative abun-dances of bacterial taxa such as Deltaproteobacteria, Planctomycetes, Verrucomicrobia and fungal  taxon Pezizomycete in the cucumber rhizosphere. It increased the population density of a soil -borne pathogen ( Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerinum ) of cucumber  [59]. Another study showed that allelochemicals released by plants of the Brassicaceae, Caryo-phyllaceae Chenopodiaceae, and Cyperaceae families suppressed fungal pathogen spores germination and disrupted symbiotic associations between mycorrhiza l fungi with nearby growing host plants [60]. The soil microbiota plays an essential role in determining the structure and dynamics of plant commu nities and can profoundly influence ecosystem invasion by exotic plant species. Previous research on invasive plants has revealed a wide variety of plant–soil interactions that might enhance invasiveness in a new range [61–63]. Two distinct mech-anisms by which plant–soil community interactions influence native plant dominance and exotic plant invasiveness have been proposed [64]. First, exotic plants can manipulate the local soil biota by increasing pathogen levels or disrupting root symbiont communities. For example, chemical compounds (allyl isothiocyanate) released by the invasive species  garlic must ard ( Alliaria petiolate ) disrupt the association of ecto - and arbuscular mycorrhi-zal fungi with roots of native plant s [65]. Root exudates of the tropical invasive weed, Chromolaena odorata,  disrupt the soil microbiota and promote the accumulation of the path-ogenic fungus Fusarium semitectum  in its rhizosphere, negatively affecting the growth of neighboring native plant species [66]. In an alternative scenario, native soil communities might be unable to detoxify allelochemicals of exotic plant species or might render them even more toxic through microbial -mediated conversion ( Figure 1).  Figure 1. The concept of allelopathy and plant–soil interaction . (I) Donor plants release allelochem-icals from their roots or decomposing leaf materials. Allelochemicals exert growth inhibitory activ-ity on target plants either directly (A) or via the inter mediate of soil microorganisms, which convert the plant -derived compound into a more active form (B); ( II) Invasive plants might alter native plant–soil interactions by changing soil chemistry, the composition of soil -living symbiotic mutual-ists, or the ab undance of local pathogens . Figure 1. The concept of allelopathy and plant–soil interaction. ( I) Donor plants release allelochemi-cals from their roots or decomposing leaf materials. Allelochemicals exert growth inhibitory activityon target plants either directly (A) or via the intermediate of soil microorganisms, which convert theplant-derived compound into a more active form (B); ( II) Invasive plants might alter native plant–soilinteractions by changing soil chemistry, the composition of soil-living symbiotic mutualists, or theabundance of local pathogens.Efﬂux of secondary metabolites from the cell membrane, including allelochemicals,is facilitated by passive transport (diffusion, ion channels, and exocytosis via secretoryvesicles) and an active transport process involving the utilization of speciﬁc membrane-bound transport proteins [21].The last few years have seen unprecedented efforts to understand the role of metabo-lites in establishing and modulating the structure of the rhizosphere and root (endophyte)microbial community and to identify the members of the soil microbial communities cou-Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 7 of 20pled with their relative abundance ﬂuctuation in response by employing several omics ap-proaches such as genomics, metagenomics transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics.The advent of next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies has revolutionized and ac-celerated robust high-throughput data generation of genomics, transcriptomics proteomes,and metabolomes, ushering in a new era of big data that pave the way for characterizingand exploring the impact of secreted metabolites on the biology and ecology of plants,plant-associated microorganisms, and their interactions [ 67]. In the following section, weoutlined the recent research on the implementation of omics resources and the integrationof multi-omics data in inferring the detailed picture of plant–microbial interactions, as wellas the identiﬁcation and characterization of compounds exudated from the root into therhizosphere and their role in the interaction with rhizosphere-associated microbes.4. Metagenomics and Metatranscriptomics: A Paradigm Shift in MicrobiomicsThe last two decades have arguably witnessed unprecedented progress in understand-ing the role of root morphology and root exudation in shaping rhizobiomes. The ﬁrstinitiative in this ﬁeld was the identiﬁcation of microbes in root exudates using traditionalculturing methods [ 68]. Since the introduction of ﬁrst-generation sequencers, amplicon-based strategies targeting variable regions of genomes (such as 16S, ITS, or 18S) havebeen widely used to describe the composition of bacterial, archaeal, fungal, and micro-eukaryotic communities in the rhizosphere [ 69]. However, cataloging the vast diversityof the rhizosphere owing to unculturable microbes, their host and habitat preference haschallenged this method. The advanced power of DNA sequencing technology (second-generation sequencers) circumvents these obstacles by cost-effective DNA sequencingisolated directly from the soil, rhizosphere, and root samples [ 70]. Studies leveragingnext-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies for amplicon sequencing of the 16S rRNAgene, ITS/18s rRNA, have led to the ﬁeld of metagenome analysis [ 71,72]. In recent years,community structure and diversity of soil microbes have been the focus of soil ecologyresearch. Sixty-four sequences of the soil microbiome of rice have been characterized bymetagenomics [ 73]. Nevertheless, the metagenome-based approach provides new insightsinto the variation of fungal populations, bacterial diversity, and their richness in both thebulk soil and rhizosphere of soybean [ 74], the effects of continuous sugar beet cultivationon its endophytes [ 75] and the assessment of rhizosphere diversity and endophytic fungiinAtractylodes macrocephala [76].This PCR amplicon-based approach follows the steps such as NGS data QC andtrimming, read merging (for PE reads), OTU/ASV table generation based on the referencedatabase Greengene [ 77], Silva [ 78], and Genbank [ 79], community proﬁling (alpha and betadiversity analysis), statistical analysis (correlation analysis, clustering and heatmap) andfunctional analysis using PICRUSt [ 80] and Tax4Fun [ 81] (Figure 2). Long-read sequencingtechnologies (PacBio and Oxford Nanopore Technology) have recently been used to proﬁlemicrobial communities in environmental samples at species-level resolution by sequencingthe entire marker gene (16s, 18s rRNA and ITS) amplicon [ 82,83]. This amplicon-basedmethod is widely used for exploring microbial proﬁling from samples. In a recent study,16s rRNA-based microbiota analyses of rice rhizosphere and seed identiﬁed the verticaltransformation of microbes from parental seed to offspring [84].Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 8 of 20Cells 2022 , 11, x FOR PEER REVIEW  8 of 20    Figure 2. Overview of metagenome and metatranscriptome analysis workflow.  An essential step in the identification of plant–microbe interactions is the sequencing of the genome of microbes associated with or surrounding the plant [85]. The whole ge-nome of the organism provides information on the entire set of genes present in the or-ganism, key enzymes, and associated metabolic pathways, thus improving our under-standing of the biogeochemical cycle of the organism [86]. In this context, metagenome assembly facilitates not only the assembly of individual DNA sequences into genes or or-ganisms to obtain complete genetic information, but also the exploration of hidden re-sources such as new genes, biomolecules, valuable products, and complex functions of microbial communities and the interactions between these microbes in the rhizosphere [87]. The metagenome assembly process generally includes the following steps: NGS data quality control, genome assembly (de novo or overlap -based), assembly quality control, genome binning, gene prediction, gene an notation, genome profiling, functional genome prediction, and variation analysis ( Figure 2). Long -read sequencers (PacBio and ONT) are widely used to generate high -quality metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) from met-agenome samples [88]. MAGs compiled from the samples provide detailed insight into the functional behavior of the microbes fo und in the samples, including high -resolution microbial profiling of the samples under study [88]. Using this technique, researchers dis-covered differences in microbial composition (bacteria, fungi, and archaea) between the healthy and diseased tomato rhizospheres samples [89]. Metatranscriptomics is an RNA -based method that provides valuable information about the entire gene expression pr ofile of complex microbial communities and the impact of environmental conditions on the Figure 2. Overview of metagenome and metatranscriptome analysis workﬂow.An essential step in the identiﬁcation of plant–microbe interactions is the sequencing ofthe genome of microbes associated with or surrounding the plant [ 85]. The whole genomeof the organism provides information on the entire set of genes present in the organism, keyenzymes, and associated metabolic pathways, thus improving our understanding of thebiogeochemical cycle of the organism [ 86]. In this context, metagenome assembly facilitatesnot only the assembly of individual DNA sequences into genes or organisms to obtaincomplete genetic information, but also the exploration of hidden resources such as newgenes, biomolecules, valuable products, and complex functions of microbial communitiesand the interactions between these microbes in the rhizosphere [ 87]. The metagenomeassembly process generally includes the following steps: NGS data quality control, genomeassembly (de novo or overlap-based), assembly quality control, genome binning, geneprediction, gene annotation, genome proﬁling, functional genome prediction, and variationanalysis (Figure 2). Long-read sequencers (PacBio and ONT) are widely used to generatehigh-quality metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) from metagenome samples [ 88].MAGs compiled from the samples provide detailed insight into the functional behaviorof the microbes found in the samples, including high-resolution microbial proﬁling of thesamples under study [ 88]. Using this technique, researchers discovered differences in mi-crobial composition (bacteria, fungi, and archaea) between the healthy and diseased tomatorhizospheres samples [ 89]. Metatranscriptomics is an RNA-based method that providesvaluable information about the entire gene expression proﬁle of complex microbial commu-nities and the impact of environmental conditions on the diversity and expression proﬁleCells 2022 ,11, 3254 9 of 20within such a community [ 90]. This technique has been deployed to investigate changesin microbiomes in the soil and rhizospheres of wheat, oat, pea, and an oat mutant [ 91] aswell as symbiotic activities of ectomycorrhizal fungi [ 92]. Metatranscriptome data analysismainly involves quality control, transcriptome assembly, taxonomic proﬁling, functionalannotation of transcript, pathway analysis, and differential gene expression analysis (Fig-ure 2). Shotgun data are used for metatranscriptome studies, but in recent times, long-readsequencers have been used for sequencing the metatranscriptomics samples [93].5. Synthetic Microbial Communities (SynComs) Tool: An Exciting Frontier inRhizosphere ResearchIn recent years, plant microbiome research has rapidly advanced in understanding thecomplexity and dynamics of plant–microbe and microbe–microbe interactions in the rhizo-sphere. The availability of such information is being used in the formulation of microbialinoculants as an effective complementary or alternative tool for agricultural sustainabilityand productivity [ 94]. However, the practice demonstrated inconsistent efﬁcacy in ﬁeldconditions, which can be attributed to ineffective colonization and interaction of micro-bial inoculants with the plant, soil microbiome, and soil environment [ 95]. The lack ofmechanistic understanding of the underlying processes of colonization and establishmentis a bottleneck to the successful implementation of conventional inoculants in currentagricultural practice [ 95]. An exciting development in this area is the development of ver-satile and scalable synthetic microbial community (SynCom) systems, where deﬁned andcontrolled microbial communities are assembled from an extensive collection of microbesto advance our understanding of microbial interactions within diverse natural and artiﬁcialmicrobiomes, including the host [ 96]. The rationale is to reduce the complexity of themicrobial community by tracking and monitoring changes in microbial inoculants in theenvironment for reproducible implementation in ﬁeld conditions to promote robustness interms of colonization and crop production and resiliency against biotic and abiotic stressin agriculture. For instance, the SynCom was constructed from sugarcane-associated andrhizosphere-associated microbes, resulting in increased biomass and improved droughttolerance in maize plants [ 97] and improved yields and scab tolerance in potatoes [ 98].Synthetic microbial systems have recently reawakened interest in plant–microbe interactionresearch because of their ability to dissect the role of secondary metabolites, signalingmolecules, and other components of plant root exudates in the dynamic biological and eco-logical interactions of microbiomes [ 99]. The SynCom-based approach has been employedin probing the microbial interactions driven by exometabolites [ 100], identifying plantgenetic factors that determine the relative abundance and composition of the phyllospherecommunity [ 101], and studying the role of specialized metabolites on the colonization ofmicrobes in A. thaliana and maize rhizospheres [102,103]. Although the SynCom providesa promising platform for studying rhizosphere dynamics and structure, several associ-ated challenges, such as maintaining the long-term stability of SynCom (due to genomicevolution and horizontal gene transfer) and the complexity of dealing with multiple mi-croorganisms and their compatibility with different plant genotypes must be overcomebefore its large-scale implementation. Integration of gnotobiotic systems can elucidatethe functionality of complex consortia and plant phenotype under controlled and repro-ducible conditions. Furthermore, such use of SynCom can be reﬁned through the use ofmicroﬂuidics [ 104], where sensors can be used to detect speciﬁc metabolites that responddynamically to microorganisms.6. Genome-Wide Association Study: Tool for Dissecting the Genetic Basis ofSecondary Metabolite VariationA growing body of research has established that the composition of secondary metabo-lites in plants is an inherently variable trait. Genetic polymorphisms cause variations inmetabolite composition and abundance among cultivars, ecotypes, and species [105–107] .For instance, signiﬁcant variation in the metabolome content of ﬂavonoids, phenolamides,terpenoids, and hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives were found in root exudates of japonicaCells 2022 ,11, 3254 10 of 20and indica varieties [ 108]. A large variation of phenylpropanoids, glycosylated metabo-lites, and plant hormone-derived metabolites was observed in the root exudates of nine-teen genetically diverse accessions lines of A. thaliana [109]. Similarly, differences insecondary metabolite composition (phenylpropanoids, glycosylated metabolites, planthormone-derived metabolites) were observed in root exudates of six different ecotypes ofMoringa oleifera [110].Although the metabolomics platform enables one to gain a comprehensive view ofroot exudate compositions, an amalgamation of genotypic data derived from genome-wideassociation studies (GWAS) paves the way to dissect the genetic architecture responsible forqualitative and quantitative variations in metabolic phenotype [ 111]. Over the past years,owing to advances in genotyping and sequencing technology, the GWAS approach hasevolved into an integrated platform for mapping and identifying the candidate gene lociresponsible for natural variation in agronomically important traits, such as yield and grainquality traits in winter wheat genotypes [ 112], salinity tolerance in soybean [ 113], resistanceagainst rust in maize [ 114], and drought, salt and disease resistance in alfalfa [ 115]. AGWAS study in Arabidopsis demonstrated that host-genetic factors involved in cell wallformation and synthesis, defense, and kinase activity control their phyllosphere micro-biome composition [ 116]. These big-picture research studies motivated the conjugation ofmetabolomics and GWAS (mGWAS) to dissect the genetic architecture of the metabolomeinﬂuencing the microbial community composition in important crop species, includingrice [117], wheat [45], and maize [118].It is increasingly recognized that the structure, dynamics, function, and response ofthe plant microbiome are intimately intertwined with the PSMs. Application of mGWASfor high-conﬁdence gene identiﬁcation associated with PSAMs could identify selectabletraits to enhance agricultural productivity. Thus, mGWAS could resolve the following long-standing questions related to speciﬁc variations in root exudation among plant species andgenotypes and correspondingly microbial composition: (1) What proportion of measurableconcentrations of metabolites are controlled by genetic loci, (2) how many candidate geneloci of PSMs and how much of the genetic variance of these loci are involved in determiningmicrobial composition, (3) to what extent are PSMs correlated with signiﬁcant associationswith microbiome composition, and (4) how has domestication resulted in anatomicalor metabolic trade-offs that plants uniquely utilize for determining the composition oftheir microbiome?7. Metabolomics: The Bridge of Multi-Omics in Metabolite Discovery inPlant–Microbe InteractionsThe post-genomics era has seen profound progress in cutting-edge technologies forhigh-throughput DNA sequencing (genomics), gene expression analysis (transcriptomics),and protein analysis (proteomics). Nevertheless, the polymeric nature of proteomics andtranscriptomics methods has facilitated the development of metabolomics for compre-hensive, unbiased, high-throughput analyses of plant metabolome biosynthetic products,which signiﬁcantly impacts plant growth and development, stress response, and ecologicalinteractions of plants with weeds and other micro- and macro-organisms [ 119]. In thiscontext, metabolomics techniques extend far beyond large-scale metabolite proﬁling andenable the creation of a metabolomic network atlas of the plant using mutant or transgeniclines, gene functions or impact in the metabolic pathway, thus providing a sophisticatedplatform to gain unique insights into metabolite changes in response to environmental andgenetic modiﬁcation as well as the role of metabolites in biodiversity and plant–microbeinteractions [ 120], which is usually challenging to accomplish using traditional assayssuch as transcriptomics and microarray [ 121]. Detection and quantiﬁcation of diverseclasses of plant metabolites using less than three orthogonal methods is precluded owingto their varied chemical and physical properties. In this context, metabolomics analysisshould be properly designed to encompass the detection of a wide range of compounds forCells 2022 ,11, 3254 11 of 20comparative analysis and a more comprehensive understanding of exudate compositionand its role in plant–microbe interaction.7.1. Instrumentation in MetabolomicsNumerous tools and techniques are available for metabolite identiﬁcation, screening,and quantiﬁcation, each with its advantages and disadvantages. Multiple technologies canbe used in tandem to proﬁle an entire extract, and overlapping data should be combined tocreate a complete proﬁle [ 122]. The type of extraction method used, such as liquid–liquidextraction or solid-phase extraction, etc., can affect recovery, reproducibility, and speciﬁcityin metabolite detection, thus necessitating the development of optimal extraction meth-ods [ 123]. The selection of extraction solvents is also crucial. For instance, carbohydratescan be easily extracted in methanol–water, whereas lipids are best recovered in chloro-form. Lastly, samples are desiccated in a sample concentrator, then reconstituted in theappropriate solvent, and if required, derivatized and injected into the instrument [ 124,125].Spectrophotometric methods are considered rapid and cost-effective methods for ﬁn-gerprint analysis of samples. Spectrophotometers can detect metabolites on their respectivewavelength. Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy is another ﬁngerprintingtechnique that can analyze thousands of samples of a wide range of metabolites per daywithout damaging or wasting the samples. In FTIR spectroscopy, metabolites absorb IRradiation and vibrate in a particular way that is speciﬁc to that metabolite. Different classesof metabolites can be detected in a speciﬁc IR range, for example, polysaccharides in1000–1150 cm 1, mixed region 1250–1450 cm 1, amides 1600–1800 cm 1, and fatty acids2800–3050 cm 1[126]. Over recent decades, FTIR spectroscopy has been increasingly usedin the measurement of compositional and structural changes in soil bacteria in response toplant signals [ 127], identiﬁcation and classiﬁcation of microorganisms [ 128], differentiationof roots of different species for a deeper understanding of the belowground root interac-tion [ 129,130], chemical changes induced in roots after microbial colonization [ 131], andthe inﬂuence of root distribution patterns on other plant species [132].Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy has emerged as a powerful analyticaltechnique for metabolomics and structural studies due to minimal sample preparation,preservation of biological integrity of samples during analysis, simultaneous quantiﬁcationof metabolites in a complex mixture, and high experimental reproducibility [ 133]. InNMR, electrically charged nuclei in a strong constant ﬁeld are perturbed by an externalmagnetic ﬁeld. The resulting interaction of the magnetic moment of an atomic nucleusproduces the phenomenon of magnetic resonance, which can be used either to matchagainst spectral libraries or to directly infer the basic structure to identify metabolites ofbiological origin [ 134]. Novel methods for signal ampliﬁcation and artifact suppression inNMR spectra have improved the identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of primary and secondaryplant metabolites [ 135]. Moreover, NMR-based metabolomics proved to be a promising toolfor characterizing plant ecotypes based on metabolite ﬁngerprinting [ 136], for identifyingmetabolites involved in host plant resistance to pathogens [ 137], to elucidate the rootmetabolome response of citrus and orange plant varieties against Candidatus Liberibacterasiaticus infection [ 138], and to metabolically cross-talk during plant–microbe interactionsin the rhizosphere [139].Mass spectrometry, in conjunction with chromatographic approaches, is commonlyused for metabolic proﬁling, particularly in plant metabolomics. Liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods are developed by infusing the metabo-lites standards into the MS, and ions are generated and extracted into the MS analyzerregion, where they are detected and separated according to their mass-to-charge (m/z)ratio and are reported as mass spectra. In quantitative analysis, electrospray (ESI) or at-mospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) techniques are commonly employed asionization sources. ESI is a soft ionization technique employed in either positive (ES+) ornegative ion mode (ES  ) based on the nature of the analyte. Electrospray ionization dataare transformed to molecular weight determination. Different types of mass analyzersCells 2022 ,11, 3254 12 of 20such as quadrupole, time of ﬂight (TOF), magnetic sector, electrostatic sector, quadrupoleion trap, and ion cyclotron resonance are used in metabolite identiﬁcation [ 140,141]. Intandem-MS (MS/MS) metabolites are fragmented by collision with an inert gas such asargon or nitrogen, resulting in collision-induced dissociation. Tandem MS approachestypically employ a single quadrupole mass ﬁlter connected in tandem with a TOF detector(Q-TOF) [ 142]. This method was used for isoﬂavone proﬁling in kudzu root [ 143], rhizobialcytokinin production in legume roots [ 144], metabolic alterations induced by bioeffectorsin tomato roots [ 145], and alkaloidal metabolome and the composition of root microbiotainAconitum vilmorinianum [146]. However, triple quadrupole MS/MS technology provideseven greater ion selectivity. Furthermore, many tandem MS analyses could be performedsequentially using an ion trap MS to select and capture appropriate ions. This MS ap-proach could lead to enhanced sensitivity in metabolite identiﬁcation, root microbiomecharacterization, and improved structural analysis [147].To enhance chromatographic performance in terms of efﬁciency, resolution, robust-ness, and sensitivity, ultra-pressure liquid chromatography (UPLC) was developed as analternative to high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) [ 148]. The column packing,diameter, and particle size in the column directly affect the resolving power of the LC-MSinstruments. The sensitivity of the instrument is controlled by the column, MS technique,and the analyzer used [ 149]. The UPLC-MS technique has been shown to be a platformfor hyphenated microseparation for metabolomic analysis of teas [ 150] and offers uniqueadvantages in the extraction and puriﬁcation of the diffusible signal factor family used asquorum-sensing signals in rhizosphere colonization [151].Gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) combines the features of gas chro-matography and mass spectrometry. It provides a good balance of sensitivity and re-liability for large-scale, nontargeted metabolite proﬁling compared to NMR and liquidchromatography–mass spectrometry [ 152]. Electron impact (EI) ionization is used in GCMSanalysis, where the electron impact results in the removal of an electron from each metabo-lite, resulting in a 1+ion. During this ionization process, the liquid part of the sample isﬁrst evaporated, followed by the movement of particles into the ionization source, whereit is bombarded with electrons, resulting in the ionization of molecules [ 153]. Chromato-graphic separation in GC is achieved by temperature ﬂuctuations inside the column ovenusing a gradient method [ 153]. Specialized software (MetAlign) is utilized for automatedbaseline correction and alignment of all extracted mass peaks across all samples, yieldingdetailed information about the relative abundance of hundreds of metabolites [ 154]. Massspectra can be easily compared with available online libraries [ 155] and databases suchas the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) spectrallibrary and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) library or, morecommonly, via in-house libraries [ 156,157]. The GC-MS has been used to track changes inthe fraction of polar metabolites of sea bream [ 158] and identify phytoconstituents presentin the root exudates of Corbichonia decumbens [159] and chemometric proﬁles of root ex-tracts of Rhodiola imbricata [160]. Increased spatial resolution of sampling combined withGC-MS-based analysis characterized four fungal endophytes from the genus Aspergillusand seven bacterial endophytes from the Kocuria ,Bacillus ,Arthrobacter ,Staphylococcus , andMicrococcus genera [161].Another innovative technique is LC-NMR-MS, which can detect, quantify, and sepa-rate metabolites and combines high-throughput NMR screening with the high sensitivityof LC-MS for metabolite detection [ 162]. Capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry(CE-MS) is excellent for the separation, screening, identiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of nu-merous polar metabolites in both positive and negative ionization modes [ 163]. Problemsrelated to mass resolution and accuracy can be solved by Fourier transform ion cyclotronresonance mass spectrometers (FT-ICR-MS), which can readily resolve metabolite peaks,except for stereoisomers of identical mass, which require prior chromatographic separa-tion [ 164]. The Orbitrap Fourier Transform Mass Spectrometer (OrbiTrap-FT-MS) is a recentdevelopment that provides more robust and rapid sample analysis at low cost with good res-Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 13 of 20olution. In contrast, MALDI-MS imaging and direct analysis in real-time mass spectrometry(DART-MS) are more user-friendly techniques with rapid pre-screening capabilities [165].7.2. Instrumental Data Conversion to Meaningful ResultsBefore interpreting the results of metabolomic studies, the data generated should passthrough four critical steps: (i) statistical processing and comparison of the raw data sets,(ii) selection of the most critical metabolite variables by data mining or knowledge discoveryin data (KDD), (iii) user-friendly presentation/storage of the data, and (iv) construction ofa database [166].In raw data processing, instruments can give erroneous results when chromatographicpeaks leak, peaks shift, and retention times change due to the formation of adducts, etc.,and they can alter the mass-to-charge ratio of metabolites. It is vital to validate the methodused for sample analysis to account for instrumental errors and the parameters of accuracy,precision, linearity, stability, and recovery. Different data sets can also be compared if theyare from other MS runs or from different instruments using a range of software packagesfor metabolomics, spectral correction and conversion, chromatogram alignment [ 167],baseline correction, noise reduction, chromatogram alignment [ 168], or sample alignmentalgorithms for deconvolution [169].Data mining uses statistical techniques and computer-based statistical applicationssuch as SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences). A GC-MS proﬁle typically containsup to 500 variables; an FTIR proﬁle contains thousands of variables, and t tests, chi-squaredistributions, or f tests, etc., are typically used to analyze the data. Furthermore, principalcomponent analysis (PCA) and independent component analysis (ICA) are rapid analysistools for summarizing and comparing large data sets without compromising with minimalinformation loss. Discriminant function analysis is typically used to evaluate plant datawith high variability (DFA). Metabolomics data can also be assessed using genetic algorithm(GA) and genetic programming (GP) analyses, which are based on evolutionary geneticsand Darwinian natural selection, respectively [170].8. Future PerspectivesIn conclusion, there is a wealth of information on allelopathic interactions betweencrops and weeds and some initial studies on the role of soil microbes in these interactions.However, studies integrating in-depth metagenomics analyses in the context of crop–weedinteractions are lacking to date. There is a substantial need to discern the role of the micro-biome in inﬂuencing plant–plant interactions in order to comprehend the interdependenciesin this complex relationship that shapes both natural and cultivated plant communitiesfor better agricultural productivity. In recent years, there has been a surge of interest inexploring the contribution of endophytic microbes to eco-friendly and cost-effective biore-mediation, phytoremediation and rhizoremediation. Numerous studies have demonstratedthat the colonization of plants by endophytes is beneﬁcial because it promotes plant growthand plays a signiﬁcant role in bioremediation. Endophytes were described to be enrichedwith those bacterial species or genotypes harboring more catabolic genes compared to therhizosphere. The enrichment of endophytes depends on plant species and the contaminanthabitats of the plant. Since allelochemical production is genetically regulated and theirconcentration varies between cultivars of the same plant species, it is still enigmatic howplants defend themselves from the auto-toxicity of allelochemicals they produce. There-fore, it would be intriguing to explore the involvement of endophytes in allelochemicaldetoxiﬁcation to shield plants from the auto-toxicity of allelochemicals and whether theﬂexible and speciﬁc nature of selective pressure plants operate to control the compositionand enrichment of the endophytic microbial community among different cultivars, whichvary considerably in allelochemicals production as a dynamic and responsive mechanismto protect themselves from auto-toxicity of allelochemicals.In summary, we expect that the integration of systems biology with complex omicsdata sets will enable us to tap deeper into the belowground chemical communication ofCells 2022 ,11, 3254 14 of 20plants with microorganisms and shed more light on the black box soil microbial diversityand rhizosphere interactions. In addition, with enhanced research and training in cutting-edge omics technologies, it will be tempting to speculate that the involvement of large-scale genome editing of targeted alleles of biosynthetic pathways and leveraging thebreeding programs to incorporate the entire biosynthetic pathway could be used for rationalmanipulation of root chemistry to produce targeted secondary metabolites that recruit abeneﬁcial microbial strain and deter pathogens. Actionable insights from such explorationscan improve plant ﬁtness and increase crop productivity.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.K.M., N.S., K.M.H., E.E.S., I.S. and K.M.A.A.; writing,A.K.M., N.S., K.M.H., E.E.S., I.S. and K.M.A.A. All authors have read and agreed to the publishedversion of the manuscript.Funding: This research received no external funding.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.Acknowledgments: This work was supported by Khalifa Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotech-nology (KCGEB), UAE University (internal research fund).Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. FAO. World Food Situation. FAO Cereal Supply and Demand Brief ; FAO: Rome, Italy, 2015.2. Damalas, C.A.; Koutroubas, S.D. Farmers’ exposure to pesticides: Toxicity types and ways of prevention. Toxics 2016 ,4, 1.[CrossRef] [PubMed]3. Glick, B.R.; Gamalero, E. Recent developments in the study of plant microbiomes. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 1533. [CrossRef][PubMed]4. Remus-Emsermann, M.N.; Lücker, S.; Müller, D.B.; Potthoff, E.; Daims, H.; Vorholt, J.A. Spatial distribution analyses of naturalphyllosphere-colonizing bacteria on A rabidopsis thaliana revealed by ﬂuorescence in situ hybridization. Environ. Microbiol. 2014 ,16, 2329–2340. [CrossRef] [PubMed]5. Wang, Q.; Sun, H.; Li, M.; Xu, C.; Zhang, Y. Different age-induced changes in rhizosphere microbial composition and function ofPanax ginseng in transplantation mode. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 563240. [CrossRef]6. Faddetta, T.; Abbate, L.; Alibrandi, P .; Arancio, W.; Siino, D.; Strati, F.; De Filippo, C.; Fatta Del Bosco, S.; Carimi, F.; Puglia, A.M.The endophytic microbiota of Citrus limon is transmitted from seed to shoot highlighting differences of bacterial and fungalcommunity structures. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 1–12. [CrossRef]7. Vishwakarma, K.; Kumar, N.; Shandilya, C.; Mohapatra, S.; Bhayana, S.; Varma, A. Revisiting plant–microbe interactions andmicrobial consortia application for enhancing sustainable agriculture: A review. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 560406. [CrossRef]8. Hu, L.; Robert, C.A.; Cadot, S.; Zhang, X.; Ye, M.; Li, B.; Manzo, D.; Chervet, N.; Steinger, T.; Van Der Heijden, M.G. Root exudatemetabolites drive plant-soil feedbacks on growth and defense by shaping the rhizosphere microbiota. Nat. Commun. 2018 ,9, 1–13.[CrossRef]9. Kong, C.-H.; Xuan, T.D.; Khanh, T.D.; Tran, H.-D.; Trung, N.T. Allelochemicals and signaling chemicals in plants. Molecules 2019 ,24, 2737. [CrossRef]10. Canarini, A.; Kaiser, C.; Merchant, A.; Richter, A.; Wanek, W. Root exudation of primary metabolites: Mechanisms and their rolesin plant responses to environmental stimuli. Front. Plant Sci. 2019 ,10, 157. [CrossRef]11. Gargallo-Garriga, A.; Sardans, J.; P érez-Trujillo, M.; Guenther, A.; Llusi à, J.; Rico, L.; Terradas, J.; Farr é-Armengol, G.; Filella, I.;Parella, T. Shifts in plant foliar and ﬂoral metabolomes in response to the suppression of the associated microbiota. BMC PlantBiol. 2016 ,16, 1–12. [CrossRef]12. Biedrzycki, M.L.; Jilany, T.A.; Dudley, S.A.; Bais, H.P . Root exudates mediate kin recognition in plants. Commun. Integr. Biol. 2010 ,3, 28–35. [CrossRef]13. Smith, S.E.; Smith, F.A. Roles of arbuscular mycorrhizas in plant nutrition and growth: New paradigms from cellular to ecosystemscales. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 2011 ,62, 227–250. [CrossRef]14. Kuzyakov, Y. Priming effects: Interactions between living and dead organic matter. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2010 ,42, 1363–1371.[CrossRef]15. Naveed, M.; Brown, L.; Raffan, A.; George, T.S.; Bengough, A.G.; Roose, T.; Sinclair, I.; Koebernick, N.; Cooper, L.; Hackett, C.A.Plant exudates may stabilize or weaken soil depending on species, origin and time. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2017 ,68, 806–816. [CrossRef]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 15 of 2016. Oleghe, E.; Naveed, M.; Baggs, E.M.; Hallett, P .D. Plant exudates improve the mechanical conditions for root penetration throughcompacted soils. Plant Soil 2017 ,421, 19–30. [CrossRef]17. Badri, D.V .; Vivanco, J.M. Regulation and function of root exudates. Plant Cell Environ. 2009 ,32, 666–681. [CrossRef]18. Brady, N.C.; Weil, R.R.; Weil, R.R. The Nature and Properties of Soils ; Prentice Hall: Upper Saddle River, NJ, USA, 2008; Volume 13.19. Lucas Garc ía, J.; Barbas, C.; Probanza, A.; Barrientos, M.; Gutierrez Mañero, F. Low molecular weight organic acids and fattyacids in root exudates of two Lupinus cultivars at ﬂowering and fruiting stages. Phytochem. Anal. Int. J. Plant Chem. Biochem. Tech.2001 ,12, 305–311. [CrossRef]20. Dietz, S.; Herz, K.; Gorzolka, K.; Jandt, U.; Bruelheide, H.; Scheel, D. Root exudate composition of grass and forb species innatural grasslands. Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 1–15. [CrossRef]21. Scavo, A.; Abbate, C.; Mauromicale, G. Plant allelochemicals: Agronomic, nutritional and ecological relevance in the soil system.Plant Soil 2019 ,442, 23–48. [CrossRef]22. Curlango-Rivera, G.; Huskey, D.A.; Mostafa, A.; Kessler, J.O.; Xiong, Z.; Hawes, M.C. Intraspecies variation in cotton border cellproduction: Rhizosphere microbiome implications. Am. J. Bot. 2013 ,100, 1706–1712. [CrossRef]23. Berazneva, J.; Conrad, J.M.; Güereña, D.T.; Lehmann, J.; Woolf, D. Agricultural productivity and soil carbon dynamics: Abioeconomic model. Am. J. Agric. Econ. 2019 ,101, 1021–1046. [CrossRef]24. Jansson, C.; Faiola, C.; Wingler, A.; Zhu, X.-G.; Kravchenko, A.; De Graaff, M.-A.; Ogden, A.J.; Handakumbura, P .P .; Werner, C.;Beckles, D.M. Crops for carbon farming. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 636709. [CrossRef] [PubMed]25. Vidal, A.; Hirte, J.; Bender, S.F.; Mayer, J.; Gattinger, A.; Höschen, C.; Schädler, S.; Iqbal, T.M.; Mueller, C.W. Linking 3D soilstructure and plant-microbe-soil carbon transfer in the rhizosphere. Front. Environ. Sci. 2018 ,6, 9. [CrossRef]26. Bobille, H.; Limami, A.M.; Robins, R.J.; Cukier, C.; Le Floch, G.; Fustec, J. Evolution of the amino acid ﬁngerprint in theunsterilized rhizosphere of a legume in relation to plant maturity. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2016 ,101, 226–236. [CrossRef]27. Badri, D.V .; Loyola-Vargas, V .M.; Du, J.; Stermitz, F.R.; Broeckling, C.D.; Iglesias-Andreu, L.; Vivanco, J.M. Transcriptome analysisof Arabidopsis roots treated with signaling compounds: A focus on signal transduction, metabolic regulation and secretion. NewPhytol. 2008 ,179, 209–223. [CrossRef]28. Mora-Mac ías, J.; Ojeda-Rivera, J.O.; Guti érrez-Alan ís, D.; Yong-Villalobos, L.; Oropeza-Aburto, A.; Raya-Gonz ález, J.; Jim énez-Domínguez, G.; Ch ávez-Calvillo, G.; Rell án-Álvarez, R.; Herrera-Estrella, L. Malate-dependent Fe accumulation is a criticalcheckpoint in the root developmental response to low phosphate. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2017 ,114, E3563–E3572. [CrossRef]29. Manck-Götzenberger, J.; Requena, N. Arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis induces a major transcriptional reprogramming of thepotato SWEET sugar transporter family. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 487. [CrossRef]30. Pratelli, R.; Voll, L.M.; Horst, R.J.; Frommer, W.B.; Pilot, G. Stimulation of nonselective amino acid export by glutamine dumperproteins. Plant Physiol. 2010 ,152, 762–773. [CrossRef]31. Yang, H.; Bogner, M.; Stierhof, Y.-D.; Ludewig, U. H+-independent glutamine transport in plant root tips. PLoS ONE 2010 ,5, e8917. [CrossRef]32. Kim, J.-Y.; Symeonidi, E.; Pang, T.Y.; Denyer, T.; Weidauer, D.; Bezrutczyk, M.; Miras, M.; Zöllner, N.; Hartwig, T.; Wudick, M.M.Distinct identities of leaf phloem cells revealed by single cell transcriptomics. Plant Cell 2021 ,33, 511–530. [CrossRef]33. Yadav, B.; Jogawat, A.; Rahman, M.S.; Narayan, O.P . Secondary metabolites in the drought stress tolerance of crop plants: Areview. Gene Rep. 2021 ,23, 101040. [CrossRef]34. Piasecka, A.; Jedrzejczak-Rey, N.; Bednarek, P . Secondary metabolites in plant innate immunity: Conserved function of divergentchemicals. New Phytol. 2015 ,206, 948–964. [CrossRef]35. Hartman, K.; van der Heijden, M.G.; Roussely-Provent, V .; Walser, J.-C.; Schlaeppi, K. Deciphering composition and function ofthe root microbiome of a legume plant. Microbiome 2017 ,5, 1–13. [CrossRef]36. Abdelrahman, M.; El-Sayed, M.A.; Hashem, A.; Abd_Allah, E.F.; Alqarawi, A.A.; Burritt, D.J.; Tran, L.-S.P . Metabolomics andtranscriptomics in legumes under phosphate deﬁciency in relation to nitrogen ﬁxation by root nodules. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 922. [CrossRef]37. Hassan, S.; Mathesius, U. The role of ﬂavonoids in root–rhizosphere signalling: Opportunities and challenges for improvingplant–microbe interactions. J. Exp. Bot. 2012 ,63, 3429–3444. [CrossRef]38. Abdel-Lateif, K.; Bogusz, D.; Hocher, V . The role of ﬂavonoids in the establishment of plant roots endosymbioses with arbuscularmycorrhiza fungi, rhizobia and Frankia bacteria. Plant Signal. Behav. 2012 ,7, 636–641. [CrossRef]39. Liu, Y.; Ma, B.; Chen, W.; Schlaeppi, K.; Erb, M.; Stirling, E.; Hu, L.; Wang, E.; Zhang, Y.; Zhao, K. Rhizobium symbiotic capacityshapes root-associated microbiomes in soybean. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 709012. [CrossRef]40. Wasson, A.P .; Pellerone, F.I.; Mathesius, U. Silencing the ﬂavonoid pathway in Medicago truncatula inhibits root nodule formationand prevents auxin transport regulation by rhizobia. Plant Cell 2006 ,18, 1617–1629. [CrossRef]41. White, L.J.; Ge, X.; Brözel, V .S.; Subramanian, S. Root isoﬂavonoids and hairy root transformation inﬂuence key bacterial taxa inthe soybean rhizosphere. Environ. Microbiol. 2017 ,19, 1391–1406. [CrossRef]42. Maxwell, C.A.; Hartwig, U.A.; Joseph, C.M.; Phillips, D.A. A chalcone and two related ﬂavonoids released from alfalfa rootsinduce nod genes of Rhizobium meliloti. Plant Physiol. 1989 ,91, 842–847. [CrossRef]43. Popovici, J.; Comte, G.; Bagnarol, É.; Alloisio, N.; Fournier, P .; Bellvert, F.; Bertrand, C.; Fernandez, M.P . Differential effects of rarespeciﬁc ﬂavonoids on compatible and incompatible strains in the Myrica gale-Frankia actinorhizal symbiosis. Appl. Environ.Microbiol. 2010 ,76, 2451–2460. [CrossRef]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 16 of 2044. Huang, A.C.; Osbourn, A. Plant terpenes that mediate below-ground interactions: Prospects for bioengineering terpenoids forplant protection. Pest Manag. Sci. 2019 ,75, 2368–2377. [CrossRef]45. Chen, Q.; Jiang, T.; Liu, Y.-X.; Liu, H.; Zhao, T.; Liu, Z.; Gan, X.; Hallab, A.; Wang, X.; He, J. Recently duplicated sesterterpene(C25) gene clusters in Arabidopsis thaliana modulate root microbiota. Sci. China Life Sci. 2019 ,62, 947–958. [CrossRef]46. Lei, F.; Liu, X.; Huang, H.; Fu, S.; Zou, K.; Zhang, S.; Zhou, L.; Zeng, J.; Liu, H.; Jiang, L. The macleaya cordata symbiont:Revealing the effects of plant niches and alkaloids on the bacterial community. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 1401. [CrossRef]47. Bradley, E.L.; Ökmen, B.; Doehlemann, G.; Henrissat, B.; Bradshaw, R.E.; Mesarich, C.H. Secreted glycoside hydrolase (GH)proteins as effectors and invasion patterns of plant-associated fungi and oomycetes. Front. Plant Sci. 2022 ,13, 853106. [CrossRef]48. Raza, W.; Wei, Z.; Jousset, A.; Shen, Q.; Friman, V .-P . Extended plant metarhizobiome: Understanding volatile organic compoundsignaling in plant-microbe metapopulation networks. Msystems 2021 ,6, e00849-00821. [CrossRef] [PubMed]49. Raza, W.; Wang, J.; Jousset, A.; Friman, V .-P .; Mei, X.; Wang, S.; Wei, Z.; Shen, Q. Bacterial community richness shifts thebalance between volatile organic compound-mediated microbe–pathogen and microbe–plant interactions. Proc. R. Soc. B 2020 ,287, 20200403. [CrossRef] [PubMed]50. Cheng, F.; Cheng, Z. Research progress on the use of plant allelopathy in agriculture and the physiological and ecologicalmechanisms of allelopathy. Front. Plant Sci. 2015 ,6, 1020. [CrossRef]51. Kong, C.-H.; Zhang, S.-Z.; Li, Y.-H.; Xia, Z.-C.; Yang, X.-F.; Meiners, S.J.; Wang, P . Plant neighbor detection and allelochemicalresponse are driven by root-secreted signaling chemicals. Nat. Commun. 2018 ,9, 1–9. [CrossRef] [PubMed]52. Yuan, J.; Zhang, N.; Huang, Q.; Raza, W.; Li, R.; Vivanco, J.M.; Shen, Q. Organic acids from root exudates of banana help rootcolonization of PGPR strain Bacillus amyloliquefaciens NJN-6. Sci. Rep. 2015 ,5, 1–8. [CrossRef]53. Micallef, S.A.; Channer, S.; Shiaris, M.P .; Col ón-Carmona, A. Plant age and genotype impact the progression of bacterialcommunity succession in the Arabidopsis rhizosphere. Plant Signal. Behav. 2009 ,4, 777–780. [CrossRef]54. Dias, A.C.F.; Dini-Andreote, F.; Hannula, S.E.; Andreote, F.D.; Pereira e Silva, M.d.C.; Salles, J.F.; de Boer, W.; van Veen, J.; vanElsas, J.D. Different selective effects on rhizosphere bacteria exerted by genetically modiﬁed versus conventional potato lines.PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e67948. [CrossRef]55. Pascale, A.; Proietti, S.; Pantelides, I.S.; Stringlis, I.A. Modulation of the root microbiome by plant molecules: The basis fortargeted disease suppression and plant growth promotion. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,10, 1741. [CrossRef]56. Weinert, N.; Piceno, Y.; Ding, G.-C.; Meincke, R.; Heuer, H.; Berg, G.; Schloter, M.; Andersen, G.; Smalla, K. PhyloChiphybridization uncovered an enormous bacterial diversity in the rhizosphere of different potato cultivars: Many common and fewcultivar-dependent taxa. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 2011 ,75, 497–506. [CrossRef]57. Haichar, F.e.Z.; Marol, C.; Berge, O.; Rangel-Castro, J.I.; Prosser, J.I.; Balesdent, J.; Heulin, T.; Achouak, W. Plant host habitat androot exudates shape soil bacterial community structure. ISME J. 2008 ,2, 1221–1230. [CrossRef]58. Peiffer, J.A.; Spor, A.; Koren, O.; Jin, Z.; Tringe, S.G.; Dangl, J.L.; Buckler, E.S.; Ley, R.E. Diversity and heritability of the maizerhizosphere microbiome under ﬁeld conditions. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2013 ,110, 6548–6553. [CrossRef]59. Zhou, X.; Wu, F. p-Coumaric acid inﬂuenced cucumber rhizosphere soil microbial communities and the growth of Fusariumoxysporum f. sp. cucumerinum Owen. PLoS ONE 2012 ,7, e48288.60. Cipollini, D.; Rigsby, C.M.; Barto, E.K. Microbes as targets and mediators of allelopathy in plants. J. Chem. Ecol. 2012 ,38, 714–727.[CrossRef]61. Sanon, A.; Andrianjaka, Z.; Prin, Y.; Bally, R.; Thioulouse, J.; Comte, G.; Duponnois, R. Rhizosphere microbiota interfers withplant-plant interactions. Plant Soil 2009 ,321, 259–278. [CrossRef]62. Rodríguez-Echeverr ía, S. Rhizobial hitchhikers from Down Under: Invasional meltdown in a plant–bacteria mutualism?J. Biogeogr. 2010 ,37, 1611–1622. [CrossRef]63. Elgersma, K.J.; Ehrenfeld, J.G. Linear and non-linear impacts of a non-native plant invasion on soil microbial community structureand function. Biol. Invasions 2011 ,13, 757–768. [CrossRef]64. Van der Putten, W.H. Impacts of soil microbial communities on exotic plant invasions. Trends Ecol. Evol. 2010 ,25, 512–519.65. Cantor, A.; Hale, A.; Aaron, J.; Traw, M.B.; Kalisz, S. Low allelochemical concentrations detected in garlic mustard-invaded forestsoils inhibit fungal growth and AMF spore germination. Biol. Invasions 2011 ,13, 3015–3025. [CrossRef]66. Mangla, S.; Inderjit; Callaway, R.M. Exotic invasive plant accumulates native soil pathogens which inhibit native plants. J. Ecol.2008 ,96, 58–67. [CrossRef]67. Großkinsky, D.K.; Syaifullah, S.J.; Roitsch, T. Integration of multi-omics techniques and physiological phenotyping within aholistic phenomics approach to study senescence in model and crop plants. J. Exp. Bot. 2018 ,69, 825–844. [CrossRef]68. Bradbury, J. Isolation and preliminary study of bacteria from plants. Pest Artic. News Summ. 1970 ,16, 632–637. [CrossRef]69. Schoch, C.L.; Seifert, K.A.; Huhndorf, S.; Robert, V .; Spouge, J.L.; Levesque, C.A.; Chen, W.; Consortium, F.B.; List, F.B.C.A.;Bolchacova, E. Nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region as a universal DNA barcode marker for Fungi. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2012 ,109, 6241–6246. [CrossRef]70. Simmons, T.; Caddell, D.F.; Deng, S.; Coleman-Derr, D. Exploring the root microbiome: Extracting bacterial community data fromthe soil, rhizosphere, and root endosphere. J. Vis. Exp. 2018 ,135, e57561. [CrossRef]71. Findley, K.; Oh, J.; Yang, J.; Conlan, S.; Deming, C.; Meyer, J.A.; Schoenfeld, D.; Nomicos, E.; Park, M.; Kong, H.H. Topographicdiversity of fungal and bacterial communities in human skin. Nature 2013 ,498, 367–370. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 17 of 2072. Ghannoum, M.A.; Jurevic, R.J.; Mukherjee, P .K.; Cui, F.; Sikaroodi, M.; Naqvi, A.; Gillevet, P .M. Characterization of the oral fungalmicrobiome (mycobiome) in healthy individuals. PLoS Pathog. 2010 ,6, e1000713. [CrossRef] [PubMed]73. Jang, S.-W.; Yoou, M.-H.; Hong, W.-J.; Kim, Y.-J.; Lee, E.-J.; Jung, K.-H. Re-analysis of 16S amplicon sequencing data reveals soilmicrobial population shifts in rice ﬁelds under drought condition. Rice 2020 ,13, 1–7. [CrossRef]74. Bolaji, A.J.; Wan, J.C.; Manchur, C.L.; Lawley, Y.; De Kievit, T.R.; Fernando, W.D.; Belmonte, M.F. Microbial community dynamicsof soybean (Glycine max) is affected by cropping sequence. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 632280. [CrossRef]75. Li, M.; Yang, F.; Wu, X.; Yan, H.; Liu, Y. Effects of continuous cropping of sugar beet ( Beta vulgaris L.) on its endophytic and soilbacterial community by high-throughput sequencing. Ann. Microbiol. 2020 ,70, 1–12. [CrossRef]76. Zhu, B.; Wu, J.; Ji, Q.; Wu, W.; Dong, S.; Yu, J.; Zhang, Q.; Qin, L. Diversity of rhizosphere and endophytic fungi in Atractylodesmacrocephala during continuous cropping. PeerJ 2020 ,8, e8905. [CrossRef]77. DeSantis, T.Z.; Hugenholtz, P .; Larsen, N.; Rojas, M.; Brodie, E.L.; Keller, K.; Huber, T.; Dalevi, D.; Hu, P .; Andersen, G.L.Greengenes, a chimera-checked 16S rRNA gene database and workbench compatible with ARB. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2006 ,72, 5069–5072. [CrossRef]78. Quast, C.; Pruesse, E.; Yilmaz, P .; Gerken, J.; Schweer, T.; Yarza, P .; Peplies, J.; Glöckner, F.O. The SILVA ribosomal RNA genedatabase project: Improved data processing and web-based tools. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 ,41, D590–D596. [CrossRef]79. Sayers, E.W.; Cavanaugh, M.; Clark, K.; Ostell, J.; Pruitt, K.D.; Karsch-Mizrachi, I. GenBank. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 ,47, D94–D99.[CrossRef]80. Douglas, G.M.; Beiko, R.G.; Langille, M.G. Predicting the functional potential of the microbiome from marker genes usingPICRUSt. In Microbiome Analysis ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2018; pp. 169–177.81. Aßhauer, K.P .; Wemheuer, B.; Daniel, R.; Meinicke, P . Tax4Fun: Predicting functional proﬁles from metagenomic 16S rRNA data.Bioinformatics 2015 ,31, 2882–2884. [CrossRef]82. Matsuo, Y.; Komiya, S.; Yasumizu, Y.; Yasuoka, Y.; Mizushima, K.; Takagi, T.; Kryukov, K.; Fukuda, A.; Morimoto, Y.; Naito, Y. Full-length 16S rRNA gene amplicon analysis of human gut microbiota using MinION ™nanopore sequencing confers species-levelresolution. BMC Microbiol. 2021 ,21, 1–13. [CrossRef]83. Callahan, B.J.; Wong, J.; Heiner, C.; Oh, S.; Theriot, C.M.; Gulati, A.S.; McGill, S.K.; Dougherty, M.K. High-throughput ampliconsequencing of the full-length 16S rRNA gene with single-nucleotide resolution. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 ,47, e103. [CrossRef]84. Zhou, X.; Wang, J.-T.; Zhang, Z.-F.; Li, W.; Chen, W.; Cai, L. Microbiota in the rhizosphere and seed of rice from China, withreference to their transmission and biogeography. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 995. [CrossRef] [PubMed]85. Sharma, M.; Sudheer, S.; Usmani, Z.; Rani, R.; Gupta, P . Deciphering the omics of plant-microbe interaction: Perspectives andnew insights. Curr. Genom. 2020 ,21, 343–362. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Ghurye, J.S.; Cepeda-Espinoza, V .; Pop, M. Focus: Microbiome: Metagenomic assembly: Overview, challenges and applications.Yale J. Biol. Med. 2016 ,89, 353.87. Knief, C. Analysis of plant microbe interactions in the era of next generation sequencing technologies. Front. Plant Sci. 2014 ,5, 216. [CrossRef]88. Xie, H.; Yang, C.; Sun, Y.; Igarashi, Y.; Jin, T.; Luo, F. PacBio long reads improve metagenomic assemblies, gene catalogs, andgenome binning. Front. Genet. 2020 ,11, 516269. [CrossRef]89. Adedayo, A.A.; Fadiji, A.E.; Babalola, O.O. The effects of plant health status on the community structure and metabolic pathwaysof rhizosphere microbial communities associated with solanum lycopersicum. Horticulturae 2022 ,8, 404. [CrossRef]90. Mukherjee, A.; Reddy, M.S. Metatranscriptomics: An approach for retrieving novel eukaryotic genes from polluted and relatedenvironments. 3 Biotech 2020 ,10, 1–19. [CrossRef]91. Turner, T.R.; Ramakrishnan, K.; Walshaw, J.; Heavens, D.; Alston, M.; Swarbreck, D.; Osbourn, A.; Grant, A.; Poole, P .S.Comparative metatranscriptomics reveals kingdom level changes in the rhizosphere microbiome of plants. ISME J. 2013 ,7, 2248–2258. [CrossRef] [PubMed]92. Liao, H.L.; Chen, Y.; Bruns, T.; Peay, K.; Taylor, J.; Branco, S.; Talbot, J.; Vilgalys, R. Metatranscriptomic analysis of ectomycorrhizalroots reveals genes associated with P iloderma–P inus symbiosis: Improved methodologies for assessing gene expression in situ.Environ. Microbiol. 2014 ,16, 3730–3742. [CrossRef] [PubMed]93. Haveman, N.J.; Khodadad, C.L.; Dixit, A.R.; Louyakis, A.S.; Massa, G.D.; Venkateswaran, K.; Foster, J.S. Evaluating the lettucemetatranscriptome with MinION sequencing for future spaceﬂight food production applications. npj Microgravity 2021 ,7, 1–11.[CrossRef] [PubMed]94. Singh, B.K.; Trivedi, P . Microbiome and the future for food and nutrient security. Microb. Biotechnol. 2017 ,10, 50. [CrossRef]95. Sessitsch, A.; Pfaffenbichler, N.; Mitter, B. Microbiome applications from lab to ﬁeld: Facing complexity. Trends Plant Sci. 2019 ,24, 194–198. [CrossRef]96. McCarty, N.S.; Ledesma-Amaro, R. Synthetic biology tools to engineer microbial communities for biotechnology. Trends Biotechnol.2019 ,37, 181–197. [CrossRef]97. Armanhi, J.S.L.; De Souza, R.S.C.; Damasceno, N.d.B.; De Araujo, L.M.; Imperial, J.; Arruda, P . A community-based culturecollection for targeting novel plant growth-promoting bacteria from the sugarcane microbiome. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,8, 2191.[CrossRef]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 18 of 2098. Wang, Z.; Li, Y.; Zhuang, L.; Yu, Y.; Liu, J.; Zhang, L.; Gao, Z.; Wu, Y.; Gao, W.; Ding, G.-c. A rhizosphere-derived consortium ofBacillus subtilis and Trichoderma harzianum suppresses common scab of potato and increases yield. Comput. Struct. Biotechnol. J.2019 ,17, 645–653. [CrossRef]99. Andrade-Dom ínguez, A.; Salazar, E.; del Carmen Vargas-Lagunas, M.; Kolter, R.; Encarnacion, S. Eco-evolutionary feedbacksdrive species interactions. ISME J. 2014 ,8, 1041–1054. [CrossRef]100. Dolinšek, J.; Goldschmidt, F.; Johnson, D.R. Synthetic microbial ecology and the dynamic interplay between microbial genotypes.FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2016 ,40, 961–979. [CrossRef]101. Bodenhausen, N.; Bortfeld-Miller, M.; Ackermann, M.; Vorholt, J.A. A synthetic community approach reveals plant genotypesaffecting the phyllosphere microbiota. PLoS Genet. 2014 ,10, e1004283. [CrossRef]102. Voges, M.J.; Bai, Y.; Schulze-Lefert, P .; Sattely, E.S. Plant-derived coumarins shape the composition of an Arabidopsis syntheticroot microbiome. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2019 ,116, 12558–12565. [CrossRef]103. Niu, B.; Paulson, J.N.; Zheng, X.; Kolter, R. Simpliﬁed and representative bacterial community of maize roots. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2017 ,114, E2450–E2459. [CrossRef]104. Stanley, C.E.; Shrivastava, J.; Brugman, R.; Heinzelmann, E.; van Swaay, D.; Grossmann, G. Dual-ﬂow-RootChip reveals localadaptations of roots towards environmental asymmetry at the physiological and genetic levels. New Phytol. 2018 ,217, 1357–1369.[CrossRef] [PubMed]105. Carreno-Quintero, N.; Bouwmeester, H.J.; Keurentjes, J.J. Genetic analysis of metabolome–phenotype interactions: From model tocrop species. Trends Genet. 2013 ,29, 41–50. [CrossRef] [PubMed]106. Matsuda, F.; Nakabayashi, R.; Yang, Z.; Okazaki, Y.; Yonemaru, J.i.; Ebana, K.; Yano, M.; Saito, K. Metabolome-genome-wideassociation study dissects genetic architecture for generating natural variation in rice secondary metabolism. Plant J. 2015 ,81, 13–23. [CrossRef] [PubMed]107. Gemmer, M.R.; Richter, C.; Schmutzer, T.; Raorane, M.L.; Junker, B.; Pillen, K.; Maurer, A. Genome-wide association study onmetabolite accumulation in a wild barley NAM population reveals natural variation in sugar metabolism. PLoS ONE 2021 ,16, e0246510. [CrossRef] [PubMed]108. Wen, W.; Li, D.; Li, X.; Gao, Y.; Li, W.; Li, H.; Liu, J.; Liu, H.; Chen, W.; Luo, J. Metabolome-based genome-wide association studyof maize kernel leads to novel biochemical insights. Nat. Commun. 2014 ,5, 1–10. [CrossRef] [PubMed]109. Mönchgesang, S.; Strehmel, N.; Schmidt, S.; Westphal, L.; Taruttis, F.; Müller, E.; Herklotz, S.; Neumann, S.; Scheel, D. Naturalvariation of root exudates in Arabidopsis thaliana-linking metabolomic and genomic data. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 1–11. [CrossRef][PubMed]110. Förster, N.; Ulrichs, C.; Schreiner, M.; Arndt, N.; Schmidt, R.; Mewis, I. Ecotype variability in growth and secondary metaboliteproﬁle in Moringa oleifera: Impact of sulfur and water availability. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2015 ,63, 2852–2861. [CrossRef] [PubMed]111. Brachi, B.; Morris, G.P .; Borevitz, J.O. Genome-wide association studies in plants: The missing heritability is in the ﬁeld. GenomeBiol. 2011 ,12, 1–8. [CrossRef]112. Tadesse, W.; Ogbonnaya, F.; Jighly, A.; Sanchez-Garcia, M.; Sohail, Q.; Rajaram, S.; Baum, M. Genome-wide association mappingof yield and grain quality traits in winter wheat genotypes. PLoS ONE 2015 ,10, e0141339. [CrossRef]113. Patil, G.; Do, T.; Vuong, T.D.; Valliyodan, B.; Lee, J.-D.; Chaudhary, J.; Shannon, J.G.; Nguyen, H.T. Genomic-assisted haplotypeanalysis and the development of high-throughput SNP markers for salinity tolerance in soybean. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 1–13.114. Olukolu, B.A.; Tracy, W.F.; Wisser, R.; De Vries, B.; Balint-Kurti, P .J. A genome-wide association study for partial resistance tomaize common rust. Phytopathology 2016 ,106, 745–751. [CrossRef]115. Zhang, T.; Yu, L.-X.; Zheng, P .; Li, Y.; Rivera, M.; Main, D.; Greene, S.L. Identiﬁcation of loci associated with drought resistancetraits in heterozygous autotetraploid alfalfa ( Medicago sativa L.) using genome-wide association studies with genotyping bysequencing. PLoS ONE 2015 ,10, e0138931. [CrossRef]116. Horton, M.W.; Bodenhausen, N.; Beilsmith, K.; Meng, D.; Muegge, B.D.; Subramanian, S.; Vetter, M.M.; Vilhj álmsson, B.J.;Nordborg, M.; Gordon, J.I. Genome-wide association study of Arabidopsis thaliana leaf microbial community. Nat. Commun.2014 ,5, 1–7. [CrossRef]117. Chen, W.; Gao, Y.; Xie, W.; Gong, L.; Lu, K.; Wang, W.; Li, Y.; Liu, X.; Zhang, H.; Dong, H. Genome-wide association analysesprovide genetic and biochemical insights into natural variation in rice metabolism. Nat. Genet. 2014 ,46, 714–721. [CrossRef]118. Riedelsheimer, C.; Lisec, J.; Czedik-Eysenberg, A.; Sulpice, R.; Flis, A.; Grieder, C.; Altmann, T.; Stitt, M.; Willmitzer, L.;Melchinger, A.E . Genome-wide association mapping of leaf metabolic proﬁles for dissecting complex traits in maize. Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. USA 2012 ,109, 8872–8877. [CrossRef]119. Turner, M.F.; Heuberger, A.L.; Kirkwood, J.S.; Collins, C.C.; Wolfrum, E.J.; Broeckling, C.D.; Prenni, J.E.; Jahn, C.E. Non-targetedmetabolomics in diverse sorghum breeding lines indicates primary and secondary metabolite proﬁles are associated with plantbiomass accumulation and photosynthesis. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 953. [CrossRef]120. Kumar, R.; Bohra, A.; Pandey, A.K.; Pandey, M.K.; Kumar, A. Metabolomics for plant improvement: Status and prospects. Front.Plant Sci. 2017 ,8, 1302. [CrossRef]121. Kusano, M.; Saito, K. Role of metabolomics in crop improvement. J. Plant Biochem. Biotechnol. 2012 ,21, 24–31. [CrossRef]122. Sakurai, N. Recent applications of metabolomics in plant breeding. Breed. Sci. 2022 ,72, 21065. [CrossRef]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 19 of 20123. Fritsche-Guenther, R.; Gloaguen, Y.; Bauer, A.; Opialla, T.; Kempa, S.; Fleming, C.A.; Redmond, H.P .; Kirwan, J.A. Optimizedworkﬂow for on-line derivatization for targeted metabolomics approach by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Metabolites2021 ,11, 888. [CrossRef]124. Mushtaq, M.Y.; Choi, Y.H.; Verpoorte, R.; Wilson, E.G. Extraction for metabolomics: Access to the metabolome. Phytochem. Anal.2014 ,25, 291–306. [CrossRef]125. ElNaker, N.A.; Daou, M.; Ochsenkühn, M.A.; Amin, S.A.; Yousef, A.F.; Yousef, L.F. A metabolomics approach to evaluate theeffect of lyophilization versus oven drying on the chemical composition of plant extracts. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 1–11. [CrossRef]126. Ellis, D.I.; Goodacre, R. Metabolic ﬁngerprinting in disease diagnosis: Biomedical applications of infrared and Raman spectroscopy.Analyst 2006 ,131, 875–885. [CrossRef] [PubMed]127. Kamnev, A.A. FTIR spectroscopic studies of bacterial cellular responses to environmental factors, plant-bacterial interactions andsignalling. Spectroscopy 2008 ,22, 83–95. [CrossRef]128. Cao, Z.; Wang, Z.; Shang, Z.; Zhao, J. Classiﬁcation and identiﬁcation of Rhodobryum roseum Limpr. and its adulterants basedon fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and chemometrics. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0172359. [CrossRef] [PubMed]129. Naumann, A.; Heine, G.; Rauber, R. Efﬁcient discrimination of oat and pea roots by cluster analysis of Fourier transform infrared(FTIR) spectra. Field Crops Res. 2010 ,119, 78–84. [CrossRef]130. Legner, N.; Meinen, C.; Rauber, R. Root differentiation of agricultural plant cultivars and proveniences using FTIR spectroscopy.Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 748. [CrossRef]131. El Zemrany, H.; Czarnes, S.; Hallett, P .D.; Alamercery, S.; Bally, R.; Jocteur Monrozier, L. Early changes in root characteristicsof maize (Zea mays) following seed inoculation with the PGPR Azospirillum lipoferum CRT1. Plant Soil 2007 ,291, 109–118.[CrossRef]132. Rewald, B.; Meinen, C.; Trockenbrodt, M.; Ephrath, J.E.; Rachmilevitch, S. Root taxa identiﬁcation in plant mixtures–currenttechniques and future challenges. Plant Soil 2012 ,359, 165–182. [CrossRef]133. Mal, T.K.; Tian, Y.; Patterson, A.D. Sample preparation and data analysis for NMR-based metabolomics. In TranslationalBioinformatics for Therapeutic Development ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2021; pp. 301–313.134. Fan, T.W.-M.; Lane, A.N. Structure-based proﬁling of metabolites and isotopomers by NMR. Prog. Nucl. Magn. Reson. Spectrosc.2008 ,2, 69–117. [CrossRef]135. Gao, X. Recent advances in computational methods for nuclear magnetic resonance data processing. Genom. Proteom. Bioinform.2013 ,11, 29–33. [CrossRef]136. Arany, A.M.; De Jong, T.; Kim, H.; Van Dam, N.; Choi, Y.; Verpoorte, R.; Van der Meijden, E. Glucosinolates and other metabolitesin the leaves of Arabidopsis thaliana from natural populations and their effects on a generalist and a specialist herbivore.Chemoecology 2008 ,18, 65–71. [CrossRef]137. Ali, K.; Maltese, F.; Zyprian, E.; Rex, M.; Choi, Y.H.; Verpoorte, R. NMR metabolic ﬁngerprinting based identiﬁcation of grapevinemetabolites associated with downy mildew resistance. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2009 ,57, 9599–9606. [CrossRef]138. Padhi, E.M.; Maharaj, N.; Lin, S.-Y.; Mishchuk, D.O.; Chin, E.; Godfrey, K.; Foster, E.; Polek, M.; Leveau, J.H.; Slupsky, C.M.Metabolome and microbiome signatures in the roots of citrus affected by huanglongbing. Phytopathology 2019 ,109, 2022–2032.[CrossRef]139. Nemadodzi, L.E.; Vervoort, J.; Prinsloo, G. NMR-based metabolomic analysis and microbial composition of soil supportingburkea africana growth. Metabolites 2020 ,10, 402. [CrossRef]140. Ren, J.-L.; Zhang, A.-H.; Kong, L.; Wang, X.-J. Advances in mass spectrometry-based metabolomics for investigation of metabolites.RSC advances 2018 ,8, 22335–22350. [CrossRef]141. Alseekh, S.; Aharoni, A.; Brotman, Y.; Contrepois, K.; D’Auria, J.; Ewald, J.; Ewald, J.C.; Fraser, P .D.; Giavalisco, P .; Hall, R.D.Mass spectrometry-based metabolomics: A guide for annotation, quantiﬁcation and best reporting practices. Nat. Methods 2021 ,18, 747–756. [CrossRef]142. Liebal, U.W.; Phan, A.N.; Sudhakar, M.; Raman, K.; Blank, L.M. Machine learning applications for mass spectrometry-basedmetabolomics. Metabolites 2020 ,10, 243. [CrossRef]143. Zhang, Y.; Xu, Q.; Zhang, X.; Chen, J.; Liang, X.; Kettrup, A. High-performance liquid chromatography–tandem mass spectrometryfor identiﬁcation of isoﬂavones and description of the biotransformation of kudzu root. Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 2005 ,383, 787–796.[CrossRef]144. Kisiala, A.; Laffont, C.; Emery, R.N.; Frugier, F. Bioactive cytokinins are selectively secreted by Sinorhizobium meliloti nodulatingand nonnodulating strains. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2013 ,26, 1225–1231. [CrossRef]145. Nebbioso, A.; De Martino, A.; Eltlbany, N.; Smalla, K.; Piccolo, A. Phytochemical proﬁling of tomato roots following treatmentswith different microbial inoculants as revealed by IT-TOF mass spectrometry. Chem. Biol. Technol. Agric. 2016 ,3, 1–8. [CrossRef]146. Li, H.; Shi, H.; Xu, P .; Yu, D. Metabolomics and microbiome reveal potential root microbiota affecting the alkaloidal metabolomein Aconitum vilmorinianum Kom. BMC Microbiol. 2022 ,22, 1–15. [CrossRef] [PubMed]147. Rampler, E.; Abiead, Y.E.; Schoeny, H.; Rusz, M.; Hildebrand, F.; Fitz, V .; Koellensperger, G. Recurrent topics in mass spectrometry-based metabolomics and lipidomics—Standardization, coverage, and throughput. Anal. Chem. 2020 ,93, 519–545. [CrossRef][PubMed]148. Nguyen, D.T.T.; Guillarme, D.; Rudaz, S.; Veuthey, J.L. Fast analysis in liquid chromatography using small particle size and highpressure. J. Sep. Sci. 2006 ,29, 1836–1848. [CrossRef]Cells 2022 ,11, 3254 20 of 20149. Lopez, S.H.; Dias, J.; Mol, H.; de Kok, A. Selective multiresidue determination of highly polar anionic pesticides in plant-based milk, wine and beer using hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry.J. Chromatogr. A 2020 ,1625 , 461226. [CrossRef]150. Lee, L.-S.; Choi, J.H.; Son, N.; Kim, S.-H.; Park, J.-D.; Jang, D.-J.; Jeong, Y.; Kim, H.-J. Metabolomic analysis of the effect of shadetreatment on the nutritional and sensory qualities of green tea. J. Agric. Food Chem. 2013 ,61, 332–338. [CrossRef]151. Zhou, L.; Sun, S.; Zhang, W.; He, Y.-W. Ultra-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry for the detection andquantiﬁcation of diffusible signal factor (DSF) family quorum-sensing signals. In Quorum Sensing ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,Germany, 2018; pp. 97–105.152. Lisec, J.; Schauer, N.; Kopka, J.; Willmitzer, L.; Fernie, A.R. Gas chromatography mass spectrometry–based metabolite proﬁling inplants. Nat. Protoc. 2006 ,1, 387–396. [CrossRef]153. Roessner, U.; Wagner, C.; Kopka, J.; Trethewey, R.N.; Willmitzer, L. Simultaneous analysis of metabolites in potato tuber by gaschromatography–mass spectrometry. Plant J. 2000 ,23, 131–142. [CrossRef]154. De Vos, R.C.; Moco, S.; Lommen, A.; Keurentjes, J.J.; Bino, R.J.; Hall, R.D. Untargeted large-scale plant metabolomics using liquidchromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Nat. Protoc. 2007 ,2, 778–791. [CrossRef]155. Patel, M.K.; Pandey, S.; Kumar, M.; Haque, M.I.; Pal, S.; Yadav, N.S. Plants metabolome study: Emerging tools and techniques.Plants 2021 ,10, 2409. [CrossRef]156. Vinaixa, M.; Schymanski, E.L.; Neumann, S.; Navarro, M.; Salek, R.M.; Yanes, O. Mass spectral databases for LC/MS-andGC/MS-based metabolomics: State of the ﬁeld and future prospects. Trends Anal. Chem. 2016 ,78, 23–35. [CrossRef]157. Cody, R.B.; Fouquet, T.N.; Takei, C. Thermal desorption and pyrolysis direct analysis in real time mass spectrometry for qualitativecharacterization of polymers and polymer additives. Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom. 2020 ,34, e8687. [CrossRef]158. Mallouchos, A.; Mikrou, T.; Gardeli, C. Gas Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry-Based Metabolite Proﬁling for the Assessmentof Freshness in Gilthead Sea Bream (Sparus aurata). Foods 2020 ,9, 464. [CrossRef]159. Arora, S.; Saini, M. Gas chromatography mass spectrometry proﬁling in methanolic and ethyl-acetate root and stem extract ofCorbichonia decumbens (Forssk.) exell from Thar Desert of Rajasthan, India. Pharmacogn. Res. 2017 ,9, S48. [CrossRef]160. Tayade, A.B.; Dhar, P .; Kumar, J.; Sharma, M.; Chauhan, R.S.; Chaurasia, O.P .; Srivastava, R.B. Chemometric proﬁle of root extractsof Rhodiola imbricata Edgew. with hyphenated gas chromatography mass spectrometric technique. PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e52797.[CrossRef]161. Tapfuma, K.I.; Nchabeleng, E.K.; Adebo, O.A.; Hussan, R.; Williams, R.D.; Ravuluvulu, A.B.; Ndinteh, D.T.; Gan, R.-Y.; Habimana,O.; Niemann, N. Antibacterial activity and gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC–MS)-based metabolite proﬁles of Celtisafricana and its endophytic extracts. Ind. Crops Prod. 2020 ,157, 112933. [CrossRef]162. Emwas, A.-H.; Roy, R.; McKay, R.T.; Tenori, L.; Saccenti, E.; Gowda, G.N.; Raftery, D.; Alahmari, F.; Jaremko, L.; Jaremko, M.NMR spectroscopy for metabolomics research. Metabolites 2019 ,9, 123. [CrossRef]163. Huang, L.; Fang, M.; Cupp-Sutton, K.A.; Wang, Z.; Smith, K.; Wu, S. Spray-capillary-based capillary electrophoresis massspectrometry for metabolite analysis in single cells. Anal. Chem. 2021 ,93, 4479–4487. [CrossRef]164. Maia, M.; Figueiredo, A.; Cordeiro, C.; Sousa Silva, M. FT-ICR-MS-based metabolomics: A deep dive into plant metabolism. MassSpectrom. Rev. 2021 .online ahead of print . [CrossRef]165. Zhang, M.; Zhao, G.; Guo, J.; Wiedenhoeft, A.C.; Liu, C.C.; Yin, Y. Timber species identiﬁcation from chemical ﬁngerprintsusing direct analysis in real time (DART) coupled to Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry (FTICR-MS):Comparison of wood samples subjected to different treatments. Holzforschung 2019 ,73, 975–985. [CrossRef]166. Dekermanjian, J.; Labeikovsky, W.; Ghosh, D.; Kechris, K. MSCAT: A machine learning assisted catalog of metabolomics softwaretools. Metabolites 2021 ,11, 678. [CrossRef]167. Pang, Z.; Chong, J.; Zhou, G.; de Lima Morais, D.A.; Chang, L.; Barrette, M.; Gauthier, C.; Jacques, P .- É.; Li, S.; Xia, J. MetaboAnalyst5.0: Narrowing the gap between raw spectra and functional insights. Nucleic Acids Res. 2021 ,49, W388–W396. [CrossRef]168. Vorst, O.; De Vos, C.; Lommen, A.; Staps, R.; Visser, R.; Bino, R.; Hall, R. A non-directed approach to the differential analysis ofmultiple LC–MS-derived metabolic proﬁles. Metabolomics 2005 ,1, 169–180. [CrossRef]169. Eylem, C.C.; Nemutlu, E.; Dogan, A.; Acik, V .; Matyar, S.; Gezercan, Y.; Altintas, S.; Okten, A.I.; Akduman, N.E.B. High-Throughput Single-Step plasma sample extraction optimization strategies with experimental design for LC-MS and GC–MSintegrated metabolomics and lipidomics analysis. Microchem. J. 2022 ,179, 107525. [CrossRef]170. Grifﬁths, W.J. Metabolomics, Metabonomics and Metabolite Proﬁling ; Royal Society of Chemistry: London, UK, 2007.