/gid00030/gid00035/gid00032/gid00030/gid00038/gid00001/gid00033/gid00042/gid00045 /gid00001/gid00048/gid00043/gid00031/gid00028/gid00047/gid00032/gid00046Citation: Bogati, K.; Walczak, M.The Impact of Drought Stress on SoilMicrobial Community, EnzymeActivities and Plants. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy12010189Academic Editor:Nikolaos MonokrousosReceived: 15 November 2021Accepted: 5 January 2022Published: 13 January 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).agronomy ReviewThe Impact of Drought Stress on Soil Microbial Community,Enzyme Activities and PlantsKalisa Bogati1,* and Maciej Walczak1,21Department of Environmental Microbiology and Biotechnology, Faculty of Biological and Veterinary Sciences,Nicolaus Copernicus University, 87-100 Torun, Poland; walczak@umk.pl2Bacto-Tech Sp. z o.o., Gagarina 5/102 Street, 87-100 Torun, Poland*Correspondence: kalisabogati@doktorant.umk.plAbstract: Nowadays, the most signiﬁcant consequence of climate change is drought stress. Droughtis one of the important, alarming, and hazardous abiotic stresses responsible for the alterations in soilenvironment affecting soil organisms, including microorganisms and plants. It alters the activity andfunctional composition of soil microorganisms that are responsible for crucial ecosystem functionsand services. These stress conditions decrease microbial abundance, disturb microbial structure,decline microbial activity, including enzyme production (e.g., such as oxidoreductases, hydrolases,dehydrogenase, catalase, urease, phosphatases, -glucosidase) and nutrient cycling, leading to adecrease in soil fertility followed by lower plant productivity and loss in economy. Interestingly,the negative effects of drought on soil can be minimized by adding organic substances such ascompost, sewage slugs, or municipal solid waste that increases the activity of soil enzymes. Droughtdirectly affects plant morphology, anatomy, physiology, and biochemistry. Its effect on plants canalso be observed by changes at the transcriptomic and metabolomic levels. However, in plants,it can be mitigated by rhizosphere microbial communities, especially by plant growth-promotingbacteria (PGPB) and fungi (PGPF) that adapt their structural and functional compositions to waterscarcity. This review was undertaken to discuss the impacts of drought stress on soil microbialcommunity abundance, structure and activity, and plant growth and development, including the roleof soil microorganisms in this process. Microbial activity in the soil environment was considered interms of soil enzyme activities, pools, ﬂuxes, and processes of terrestrial carbon (C) and nitrogen(N) cycles. A deep understanding of many aspects is necessary to explore the impacts of theseextreme climate change events. We also focus on addressing the possible ways such as genomeediting, molecular analysis (metagenomics, transcriptomics, and metabolomics) towards ﬁndingbetter solutions for mitigating drought effects and managing agricultural practices under harshcondition in a proﬁtable manner.Keywords: climate change; water scarcity; soil microbiome; microbial activity; plant growthand development1. IntroductionAn increase in greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO 2), methane (CH 4),and nitrous oxide (N 2O), and atmospheric temperature, and depletion of water resources,being a consequence of anthropogenic activities, have driven climate change [ 1–5]. Oneof the important consequences of climate alteration is the occurrence of drought stressconditions. Drought stress in soil occurs when the water content or humidity in the soil andair is signiﬁcantly low along with the high atmospheric temperature. This happens due toan uneven balance between the soil surface evaporation and plant transpiration followedby low soil water content [ 1]. Khan et al. [ 6] monitored global drought for almost twodecades (2001–2019) using big geospatial datasets from Google Earth Engine and calculateddrought indices, namely vegetation condition index (VCI), temperature condition indexAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189. https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy12010189 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agronomyAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 2 of 26(TCI), soil moisture condition index (SMCI), and precipitation condition index (PCI). Theseindices showed continuous ﬂuctuation of soil moisture and severe vegetation drought thataffected 70% of the land globally. To date, many countries, including the USA, Australia,France, Russia, Turkey, Afghanistan, Iran, Mongolia, China, Brazil, Thailand, and Africa,have had historic events on the negative impact of drought, mainly on the agricultureand economy sector [ 6–10]. According to ICCP [ 2], each of the last four decades hasbeen successively warmer than any decade that preceded it since 1850. Global surfacetemperatures were higher by 0.99 and 1.09C in 2001–2020 and 2011–2020, respectively,than in 1850–1900, with larger increases over land (1.59C) than over the ocean (0.88C).In Europe, according to European Environment Agency (EEA; https://www.eea.europa.eu/ims/global-and-european-temperatures; 29 December 2021), land temperatures haveincreased even faster over the same period by around 1.9–2.02C [11,12] compared to theaverage values. Moreover, climate change scenarios predict a further decrease in averageprecipitation from May to October [ 12]. These trends show that the risk of soil drought inthe vegetation growing season is high and may negatively affect crop yields. In Poland,a serious threat of agricultural drought was reported in the last few years, namely in 2010,2011, 2013, 2015, 2017, and 2018 [13].Drought is deﬁned as a state of the total water capacity being within the range of12–20% for a period of 16 days and can be distinguished from the water deﬁcit, which isthe state of water capacity falling below 30% [14–17].Drought is one of the most prevalent stresses that impact microbial community andactivity , crop development, yield production, and quality [ 5,12]. A negative impact of droughton soil microbes can lead to a decrease in enzymes activity , loss in nutrient cycling (e.g.,C, N, P), and soil fertility , thus plant productivity , especially of drought susceptible crops,and consequently economic outcomes [ 5,18]. The condition of the soil under drought stressstrictly corresponds to plant growth and development. Drought directly affects plant mor-phology , physiology, and biochemistry [ 19]. It also reduces seed germination and seedlinggrowth [ 20]. Plant responses to drought stress were also observed at transcriptomic andmetabolomic levels [ 21]. Severe and long-term drought stress disturbs the availability of soilmicrobiota to the plant roots, significantly affecting their microbiome composition leadingto modification of root structure and release of root exudates and disturbance of useful nu-trients. The microbiome of plant roots changes during drought, favoring Actinobacteria andmany other Gram-positive species, which substitute the Gram-negative taxa that are predom-inantly present in the rhizosphere [ 22]. Generally , soil microorganisms can enhance plantresistance to drought via different mechanisms, including the production of polysaccharidesthat improve soil structure and water holding capacity , synthesis of deaminase, indoleaceticacid (IAA), and proline (Pro), which induce drought stress tolerance in plants and improvedwater circulation through fungal mycelia [ 23]. Interestingly , the negative effect of drought onmicroorganisms can be mitigated by the addition of organic matter to soil [ 24]. Moreover,microbial activity (respiration rates) and soil microbial community structure can be modifiedby drought-associated phytohormones such as abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), and1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC), but adaptation to prolonged drought modifiesthe responses of soil microbial communities to these hormones [25].Despite negative aspects of changes caused by drought, such severe environmentalconditions can induce interesting adaptations in microbes and plants that allow them tosurvive and reproduce. These adaptations can lead to the emergence of new functionalgroups in the ecosystem or serve as an important tool for improving agricultural practicesand plant breeding programs [ 4,25]. Such drought-tolerant microorganisms and their traitscould be used in the search for efﬁcient compounds of biopreparations supporting plantgrowth [19].This review was undertaken to discuss the impact of drought stress on soil microbialcommunity abundance, structure, and activities, thus soil enzyme activities, pools, ﬂuxes,and processes of terrestrial carbon and nitrogen cycles, and plant growth and development,Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 3 of 26including the role of soil microorganisms in this process. A deep understanding of manyaspects is necessary to explore the impacts of these extreme climate change events.2. Impact of Drought Stress on Microbial Communities and Enzyme ActivitiesProlonged drought has a signiﬁcant impact on the abundance, structure, and activityof the soil microbiome [ 12]. The potential metabolic microbial activity decreases with areduction in soil water potential, followed by lowering nutrient mineralization and respi-ration [ 26]. However, structural and/or functional adaptation of microbial communitiesin response to drought depends on soil type, farming system, and plant cultivars [ 22],as discussed later.In this section effect of drought in soils on microbial structure and enzyme activity,and consequently on nutrient cycling and soil fertility, is discussed (Figure 1).Agronomy 2022 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 26   development, including the role of soil microorganisms in this process. A deep understanding of many aspects is necessar y to explore the impacts of these extreme climate change events. 2. Impact of Drought Stress on Microbial Communities and Enzyme Activities Prolonged drought has a significant impact on  the abundance, structure, and activity of the soil microbiome [12]. The potential me tabolic microbial activity decreases with a reduction in soil water potential, followed by lowering nutrient mineralization and respiration [26]. However, structural and/or functional adaptation of microbial communities in response to drought depends on soil type, farming system, and plant cultivars [22], as discussed later.  In this section effect of drought in soils on microbial structure and enzyme activity, and consequently on nutrient cycling and soil fertility, is discussed (Figure 1).   Figure 1. Schematic representation on  the impact of drought stress on microbial communities and activities. 2.1. Effect of Drought on Microbial Communities 2.1.1. Microbial Adaptations to Drought Stress It is known that thick peptidoglycan in the cell wall of Gram-positive bacteria is responsible for their higher resistance towards drought when compared to Gram-negative bacteria. Microbes either die or beco me dormant during immediate stressful environments, whereas on the arrival of favo rable conditions, the dormant forms regain their activity. In addition, dead microbial cells release many valuable compounds such as nitrogen, phosphates, amino acids, polyols, nutrients that can be beneficial to other microbes and plants. These microorg anisms that form spores (e.g., Bacillus  sp., myxobacteria, filamentous actinobacteria, or fungi) are resistant to abiotic factors, including drought stress, and able to survive for a long time in dormant forms. However, microbes might develop many tolerance mech anisms, some of which are energetically expensive, such as these related to the regulation of resistance  genes, alteration of carbon Figure 1. Schematic representation on the impact of drought stress on microbial communitiesand activities.2.1. Effect of Drought on Microbial Communities2.1.1. Microbial Adaptations to Drought StressIt is known that thick peptidoglycan in the cell wall of Gram-positive bacteria isresponsible for their higher resistance towards drought when compared to Gram-negativebacteria. Microbes either die or become dormant during immediate stressful environments,whereas on the arrival of favorable conditions, the dormant forms regain their activity.In addition, dead microbial cells release many valuable compounds such as nitrogen,phosphates, amino acids, polyols, nutrients that can be beneﬁcial to other microbes andplants. These microorganisms that form spores (e.g., Bacillus sp., myxobacteria, ﬁlamentousactinobacteria, or fungi) are resistant to abiotic factors, including drought stress, and ableto survive for a long time in dormant forms. However, microbes might develop manytolerance mechanisms, some of which are energetically expensive, such as these related tothe regulation of resistance genes, alteration of carbon and nitrogen ﬂow, synthesis of stableproteins and osmolytes, which reduce loss of water or balance the available water [27,28].Desiccation-tolerant microorganisms, e.g., Rhodococcus jostii RHA1 [ 29],Microbacteriumsp. 3J1, Arthrobacter siccitolerans 4J27, Rhodococcus sp. 4J2A2 [ 30],Rhodococcus opacusAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 4 of 26PD630 [ 31],Lactobacillus paracasei [32], and Pseudomonas putida KT2440 [ 33] are known tooverproduce various molecules such as non-reducing sugars (trehalose), organic acids,polyols, amino acids, (rich in hydroxyl groups), pyrimidine derivatives such as ectoineand hydroxyectoine [ 30,33–38] responsible for the protection of cells from drought stressthat are called xeroprotectants. These molecules can also be taken up by non-synthesizingmicroorganisms in drought conditions [ 39,40]. A study by Garc ía-Fontana et al. [ 41] ondesiccation-tolerant microorganisms of Microbacterium sp. 3J1 showed overexpression ofgenes encoding for enzymes involved in DNA syntheses such as topoisomerases, DNApolymerases, and gyrases. This resulted in an increase in DNA production in cells as partof their defensive mechanisms to protect protein structures and functions from drying,conﬁrmed by RNA-seq analysis. In addition, siderophores, secondary metabolites thatscavenge iron from environmental stocks and deliver it to cells via speciﬁc receptors, arebelieved to help bacteria to thrive in such environments [ 42]. It was proved that siderophoreproducing Azospirillum sp. strain B2 was most resistant to drought stress and used as aninoculant for wheat can alleviate drought stress on plant growth and yield [42].2.1.2. Effect of Drought Stress on Microbial Community in Different Type of Soils or underSoil ModiﬁcationsSevere drought conditions modify the microbial community structure, size, and ac-tivity in soils. However, their effect on the microbial structure is more signiﬁcant in soilswith low organic matter content [ 12,43]. For example, controlled conditions of droughtstress-induced changes in the relative abundances of particular phyla present in sandyand loamy soils. Among six phyla, namely Actinobacteria ,Bacteroidetes ,Firmicutes, Plancto-mycetes ,Protecobacteria, and Verrucomicrobia that accounted for >95% of the total bacterialabundance, theActinobacteria (especially genera Gaiella and Nocarioides ) were most preva-lent in analyzed samples. While relative abundance of Proteobacteria , being corticotrophs,and Verrucomicrobia decreased signiﬁcantly [ 12]. Baldrian et al. [ 44], based on phospho-lipid fatty acid (PLFA) analyses, recorded that with the decrease in soil moisture content,the microbial (bacterial and fungal biomass) also decreased. In contrast, Bastida et al. [ 45]showed that drought inﬂuenced the fungal PLFA biomarker but not the bacterial PLFAbiomarkers. Interestingly, in other studies on drought impact, a higher abundance of Firmi-cutes in soil that has previously been exposed to such stress conditions was observed [ 46].This indicates that soils under repetitive drought events exhibit lower stress mortality.This can be a consequence of microbial adaptation that has been developed.Castro et al. [ 47] reported that drought-induced reductions in labile carbon and ni-trogen entering the rhizosphere might be a contributing factor in the loss of microbialphyla such as Verrucomicrobia ,Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria , which are heterotrophs andsensitive to nitrogen ratios. It has been well-documented that exogenous organic matter inthe form of sludge or compost amendments plays an important role in protecting soil mi-crobial community and microbially-mediated processes in semiarid or arid soils [ 43]. Theyrecorded that the total and Gram-positive bacteria and total monounsaturated PLFA wereaffected signiﬁcantly by drought only in the unamended soil. The alterations in bacterialcommunity composition under drought stress were also observed in two types of wheatrhizosphere soils (Chernozem and Luvisoil) [ 22]. The Luvisol soil showed a decrease inGram-negative bacteria and persistence of actinomycetes under drought conditions. How-ever, at the same time, actinobacteria diversity was lower in Luvisol than in Chernozem soil.Therefore, in the case of Luvisol soil, which is less rich in organic matter content, the effectof drought was more prominent [ 22]. It is another proof that the application of organicresidues can be proposed as an adequate strategy against soil degradation in semiaridenvironments. However, the interactions between organic amendments and drought arenot fully known [12,43,45].Furthermore, microbial community structure and microbial activity (respiration rates)in soil under drought stress can be modiﬁed by drought-associated phytohormones (ABA,JA, and ACC) [ 25]. However, the authors demonstrated the adaptation of soil microbialAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 5 of 26communities to the long-term drought that was observed by their response to plant stresshormones. All three phytohormones signiﬁcantly declined Gram-positive biomarkers indrought soils. That is interesting, as these bacteria are generally assumed to be more stress-tolerant than Gram-negative bacteria [ 48]. Overall, the adaptation of microbial community-level to drought stress often involves shifts towards organisms with greater tolerance towater deﬁcit and slow-growing taxa with a reduced metabolic capacity [ 12,25,49]. Authorsspeculated that the decrease in Gram-positive biomarker abundance after treatment withall three phytohormones indicates drought-adapted bacteria that responded negatively tostress signaling by investing resources in survival strategies such as dormancy, osmolytes,or spore production instead of growth and turnover. Further, they claimed that drought-adapted soil microbial communities might perceive these phytohormones as signals ofimpending water stress rather than as a substrate for growth [ 25]. Moreover, they foundthat the abundance of Gram-negative biomarkers remained unchanged in droughted soilsbut increased with ABA, ACC, and JA addition to control soils. Therefore, the Gram-positive:Gram-negative bacteria ratio increased in drought stress. Furthermore, they alsofound that in response to all phytohormones, the relative abundance of saprophytic fungaland arbuscular mycorrhiza (AM) biomarkers increased in droughted soils [25].Drought stress is known to hamper the availability of soil microbiota to the plantsand signiﬁcantly affect root microbiome composition. The differences in the abundanceof root-associated microbial communities at endosphere and rhizosphere levels duringmonsoon and dry seasons were reported by Naylor et al. [ 50]. They found that fungalcommunities in soils and rhizosphere were unaffected, whereas the class Actinobacteriadecreased signiﬁcantly in -diversity in roots with also a decline in Acidobacteria andDeltaproteobacteria . On the other hand, they also noticed an increase in enrichment ofActinobacteria (Saccharopolyspora, Glycomyces, and Actinopolymorpha ) under drought in theroot endosphere than in rhizosphere or bulk soil itself.2.2. Effect of Drought on Soil Enzyme ActivitiesSoil enzymes are produced by animals [ 51], plants [ 52], and microorganisms. Theyare prominently secreted by microbes and reﬂect microbial activity in this biome [ 53]. Soilmicroorganisms mainly synthesize extracellular enzymes such as -glucosidase, hydrolasesurease, phosphatase, glycosylating enzymes, cellulase, amylase, cyclomaltodextrinase,chitinase, and many more [ 43,54–56]. Other enzymes such as dehydrogenases or catalaseare intracellular. Therefore, soil enzymes play a vital role in the biodegradation of organiccompounds in soil and become the most delicate indicator of changes in microbial activities(termed as “sensors”) that occur in the soil environment in response to different factorsincluding drought [43,57].The reports on the effect of drought on different soil enzymes are limited. Generally,these effects are uncertain or not easy to predict [ 58]. However, a decrease of moisturecontent in soils decreases microbial biomass and thus soil enzyme activities [ 44,59,60].Baldrian et al. [ 44] observed seasonal changes in the activity of enzymes and the abun-dance of microorganisms correlated with the water content in the soil. The signiﬁcantdecrease in soil microbial communities and reduction of >50% activity of laccase, Mn-peroxidase, endo-1,4- -glucanase, endo-1,4- -xylanase, cellobiohydrolase, -glucosidase,-xylosidase, chitinase, and acid phosphatase enzymes were recorded in soils with lowwater content (0.30–0.40 g g 1) when compared to control samples with higher watercontent (0.60–0.70 g g 1). In other studies, it was found that drought-affected activity ofC-cycling enzymes (cellulases, glucosidases, and xylosidases) in the rhizosphere of twowheat cultivars in loamy Chernozem and sandy Luvisol soils in organic and conventionalfarming. For ‘Dichter’ wheat cultivar, enzymatic activities were decreased in Chernozemsoil in both farming types. While in Luvisoil, increased activity of glucosidases and xy-losidases was recorded in organic farming. In the case of ‘RGT-Reform’ wheat cultivar,drought negatively affected xylosidase and glucosidase activities in the Chernozem soil butpromoted glucosidase activities in Luvisol [22]. Drought impact on sediment revealed de-Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 6 of 26crease in esterase (0.5%/day) [ 61],-glucosidase (>50%) [ 62], leucine aminopeptidase [ 63],phosphatase (>50%) [ 64], and phenol oxidase (PO) [ 63] activities. In the case of Mediter-ranean evergreen oak forests, a reduction of 10 and 21% of soil moisture in plots (by waterrunoff) decreased urease activity by 10–67% and 42–60%, protease activity by 15–66% and35–45%, and -glucosidase activity by 10–80% and 35–83% depending on the annual period(spring and autumn) and soil depth (0–15 and 15–30 cm). The lowest activities of theseenzymes were observed in autumn and at a greater depth. The signiﬁcant reduction of acidphosphatase activity (by 31–40%) was observed only when the moisture content in the soilwas reduced by 21%. The phenolooxidases (laccases, Mn-peroxidases, lignin-peroxidases,and tyrosinases) activities in evergreen oak forests were studied by Cricquet et al. [ 65].They observed a signiﬁcant increase in laccase and Mn-peroxidase activities in autumnwhen compared to other months, while other phenoloxidases, lignin-peroxidases, andtyrosinases were never detected in analyzed samples. However, in this study, analyzedforest plots were not artiﬁcially dried by water runoff [ 65]. Similarly, in other studiesby Criqet et al., acid phosphatase activities were signiﬁcantly higher from November toJanuary and decreased in other months [ 66]. These highest activities (>610 2U g 1DM)correlated with high soil moisture content (around 65–70%). The lowest enzyme activities(1.210 2U g 1DM) were recorded in July, when soil moisture content was found to benearly 15%. The alkaline phosphatase was undetectable or at low activity when comparedwith acid phosphatase activities but highest between May and October. A signiﬁcantdecrease in enzymatic activity of dehydrogenases and phosphatases in both loamy andsandy soils was observed during the ﬁrst month under drought stress, while after twomonths of stress conditions, activity of dehydrogenases was even three times less whencompared to the control sample under the optimal moisture level [ 12]. However, the levelof dehydrogenase activity was considerably higher in the loamy soil than in sandy soil,which can be related to higher organic matter content in the former one [ 12,67], but theaspect of the presence of organic residues on microbial abundance and activity in soil willbe discussed later in this section.Moreover, relatively high soil exoenzyme ( -glucosidase, -xylosidase, -glucosidase(AG), -D-cellobiosidase (CBH), N-acetyl- -glucosaminidase, acid phosphatase, leucineamino peptidase, phenol oxidase, and peroxidase (PER)) activities were observed duringsummer girdling of lodgepole pine (that was complete removal of the bark from aroundthe trunk of a tree) but decreased after girdling in response to drought [68].2.3. Effect of Drought on Microbial ActivitySevere drought conditions, despite enzyme activities, may compromise nutrient avail-ability in the soil, as proved in the study by Hueso et al. [ 43]. They found high soildehydrogenase activity (34% of the total variability), a decrease of other enzyme activity,high basal respiration, and water-soluble carbon in stressed soil compared to well-wateredsoils. Increased levels of water-soluble carbon may be linked to an increase in carbohydrateproduction (52% of the total variability) due to the fact that few soil microbes producebiological polymers in response to low water conditions. Perhaps, drought can cause thedeath of sensitive microorganisms unable to thrive under such harsh conditions, whichresults in the release of substrates from dead cells into their surroundings, in turn providingaccessible nutrients to the drought-resistant microorganisms or survivors. In addition,decreased metabolic activity of the soil microbial community was also observed underdrought conditions, in turn leading to a decrease in mineralization of carbon, nitrogen, andphosphorus biological cycles or pathways [ 43]. This suggests that a large community ofactive microbial biomass did not survive during long drought stress periods, resulting inthe decline of overall soil microbial functional diversity [12,18,69].Drought strongly affects soil nitrogen cycling by inhibiting nitriﬁcation [ 12]. The soilnitriﬁcation potential (NP) is a highly sensitive parameter, which reﬂects the response ofsoil microorganisms to environmental factors, e.g., temperature or moisture content [ 70].It describes the potential activity of a specialized group of autotrophic bacteria, namelyAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 7 of 26ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (mainly genera Nitrosomonas and Nitrosospira ) that are respon-sible for the ﬁrst phase of nitriﬁcation [ 71]. Siebielec et al. [ 12] showed that after one monthdrought period, the NP activity was reduced by 70 and 80% in the loamy and sandy soils,respectively. These results indicate that the resistance of sandy soil with low organic mattercontent to drought stress was lower than that in loamy soil. Interestingly, the compostapplication to the sandy soils only slightly reduced the negative effects of drought on soilnitrifying bacteria [12].Deng et al. [ 72] investigated soil C and N pools and ﬂuxes in response to droughtin three different ecosystems, namely forests, grasslands, and shrublands, conductingmeta-data analyses, wherein a huge amount of data was collected. These data were takenfrom 148 reports and included 1815 sampling data at 134 sites across the globe and weremainly focused on short-term drought. They analyzed vegetation-related properties, soilpools of C and N and their ﬂuxes, soil microbial biomass, and activity of enzymes (Table 1).Overall, the effects of drought on soil C and N cycles were regulated by the ecosystem type,drought duration, and intensity. The latter two parameters intensiﬁed all effects. The soilorganic carbon (SOC) concentration was decreased across the globe as a consequence of de-creased litter input and decomposition under drought conditions. Drought also negativelyaffected root biomass. Microbial respiration (microbial CO 2) was increased, especially inforests and grasslands. Moreover, drought increased the contents of dissolved organiccarbon (DOC) by 59% and dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) by 33% due to decreasedmineralization and higher stability of dissolved organic matter. Although the soil mineralnitrogen (SMN) content increased (by 31%), the nitrogen mineralization and nitriﬁcationrates decreased (by 5.7 and 13.8%, respectively), thus total nitrogen concentration un-changed. Globally, NH 4+and NO 3 increased (52 and 16%, respectively), but in forestsoils, an increase of NH 4+concentrations corresponded to an 11.3% decrease of NO 3 ,thus reﬂected the increase of N mineralization rate, but a decrease of nitriﬁcation rate. Inshrublands, unlike forest soils, the concentration of NH 4+slightly increased, but NO 3 increased signiﬁcantly (69.2%). Since nitrogen mineralization rate was unaffected, but nitri-ﬁcation rate strongly decreased (by 56.4%), this might be a consequence of less N uptakeby plants under drought. Drought negatively affected microbial biomass nitrogen (MBN)content. Thus, the ratio of microbial biomass carbon MBC to MBN increased, similarly tofungal/bacterial ratio and enzyme activities across the globe (Table 1).Table 1. Effects of drought on soil C and N dynamics in three different ecosystems according to thestudy of Deng et al. [72].Analyzed Parameters Ecosystem TypeMean Changes inAll Ecosystems [%]Forests Grasslands ShrublandsLitter and Root Biomass Response Litter input - #+++#+++ 8.7 Litter decomposition rate #+++ -#+++ 12.7 Litter C content "+++#+"+++ +23.4 Litter N content "+++#+ - +13.8 Root biomass #+ - #+ 6.7Soil pools and ﬂuxes of C SOC concentration - #+++ -  3.3 DOC concentration "+++"+++"+ +59.2 Total CO 2efﬂux from soil - - #+++ - Soil microbial respiration "+++"+++ - +15.8Soil pool (concentration) and ﬂuxes of N Total N - - "+++ - DON "+ - "+ +33.0Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 8 of 26Table 1. Cont.Analyzed Parameters Ecosystem TypeMean Changes inAll Ecosystems [%]Forests Grasslands Shrublands NH 4+"+++"+"+ +52.5 NO 3 #+++"+"+++ +16.0 SMN "+++"+"+ +31.0 nitriﬁcation #+ - #+++ 13.8 N mineralization #+ - #+ 5.7 Soil microbial biomass - - - - MBC - - - +2.2 MBN #+#+#+ 10.4 MBC/MBN ratio "+++"+++"+ +29.7 F/B ratio "+"+ - +15.6Soil enzyme activities -glucosidase #+"+#+ +3.5 urease #+++"+++#+ +12.7Key: C, carbon; N, nitrogen; SOC, soil organic carbon; DOC, dissolve organic carbon; DON, dissolve organicnitrogen; SMN, soil mineral nitrogen; MBC, soil microbial biomass carbon; MBN, soil microbial biomass nitrogen; F,fungi; B, bacteria. -, no effect or not signiﬁcant response; ", increase; #, decrease; +, small effect; +++, strong effect.2.4. Mitigation of Drought Effects on Microbial Activity by Soil AmendmentsThe negative effect of drought in the soil can be minimized by adding organic substances.The addition of different types of organic matter, namely compost (COM), sewage sludge (SS),and municipal solid waste (MSW) to the arid soil increased the activity of soil enzymes suchas oxidoreductases, hydrolases, dehydrogenase, catalase, urease, phosphatases, -glucosidase,casein- and N- -benzoyl-L-argininamide (BAA)-hydrolyzing proteases [ 24], probably as aconsequence of the increase in microbial biomass [43], as mentioned previously .Moreover, microbial activity (soil respiration) in drought soils can be modiﬁed by theaddition of plant hormones, namely ABA, JA, and ACC. However, soil respiration responseto phytohormones depended on their dose. For example, the addition of 1 mM ABA twotimes increased microbial activity in droughted soil when compared to control soil, butlower ABA concentrations, namely 1 M and 1 nM, did not affect the respiration rate ofsoil samples. Interestingly, both ACC and JA in low and high concentrations increasedmicrobial activity but not in intermediate concentrations. Respiration from droughted soilswas 1.5 times higher than from the control samples treated with ACC. In the case of JA, thelowest concentration of JA (1 nM) had the largest effect on respiration in droughted andcontrol soils [ 25]. Authors suggested that increased respiration rates in soils in responseto phytohormones could be a result of hormone utilization as sources of C and N by bulksoil microorganisms. However, such a relationship was conﬁrmed only in the case of ABAaddition [25]. Therefore, further studies are required.3. Plant Morphological, Physiological, Biochemical Responses towards Drought StressIn general, plants are exposed to numerous environmental stresses in the course oftheir different stages of growth irrespective of the natural or agricultural environment [ 73].The occurrence of environmental alterations has developed various adaptations in plantsfor their survival in harsh conditions [ 1]. Common prominent environmental stress suchas drought caused due to dwindling of water resources is the main foundation in af-fecting overall plant productivity [ 73]. The plant responds to drought stress at differentlevels—morphological, anatomical, biochemical, physiological, and molecular [ 73–76](Figure 2).Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 9 of 26Agronomy 2022 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 26   levels—morphological, anatomical, biochemical, physiological, and molecular [73–76] (Figure 2).   Figure 2. Morphological, anatomical, physiological, biochemical, and molecular responses of plants to drought stress.  3.1. Morphological and Anatomical Changes in Plants in Response to Drought Stress Drought might affect plants at each stag e in their growth cycle, including seed germination. Water scarcity or drought reduces germination rate leading to reduction of seedling emergence or inhibition and furt her growth in plants [20]. Drought stress disturbs the seedling growth because of cell  expansion inhibition, decrease in carbon acclimatization, and partitioning [77]. The decrease in plant height is mainly due to decreased cell expansion, increased leaf sh edding, and impaired mitosis under drought conditions [78]. Reduction in seedling characte ristics in drought-stressed plant seeds such as Brassica napus  was reported by many authors [79–8 1]. Morphological changes in plant under drought stress involve reduced size, ar e a ,  a n d  n u m b e r  o f  l e a v e s  a s  w e l l  a s  t h e  growth of root and shoot length due to stim ulation of the ABA precursor called ACC that prevents the growth of root, with early matu rity, high growth in the root system, low number of stomata, more thick leaves with an increase in rolling and folding and wax Figure 2. Morphological, anatomical, physiological, biochemical, and molecular responses of plantsto drought stress.3.1. Morphological and Anatomical Changes in Plants in Response to Drought StressDrought might affect plants at each stage in their growth cycle, including seed germi-nation. Water scarcity or drought reduces germination rate leading to reduction of seedlingemergence or inhibition and further growth in plants [ 20]. Drought stress disturbs theseedling growth because of cell expansion inhibition, decrease in carbon acclimatization,and partitioning [ 77]. The decrease in plant height is mainly due to decreased cell ex-pansion, increased leaf shedding, and impaired mitosis under drought conditions [ 78].Reduction in seedling characteristics in drought-stressed plant seeds such as Brassica napuswas reported by many authors [ 79–81]. Morphological changes in plant under droughtstress involve reduced size, area, and number of leaves as well as the growth of root andshoot length due to stimulation of the ABA precursor called ACC that prevents the growthof root, with early maturity, high growth in the root system, low number of stomata, morethick leaves with an increase in rolling and folding and wax formation in order to preventloss of water from leaves as well as from roots [ 1,25,73]. In addition, plant leaves tend toincrease mesophyll palisade tissue, decrease spongy tissue, increase the number of celllayers, but decrease the volume and shorten the intercellular space to adopt drought, asAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 10 of 26found in two avocado cultivars [ 82]. Overall, the change of leaf area, which directly affectsplant photosynthesis and yield, is one of the most easily observed features of plant leavesunder drought stress [ 78]. Plants under drought stress have reduced the number of ﬂowersand fresh and dry biomass [ 19]. Drought stress causes a decrease in nodulation [ 83] andnodule functioning [ 75]. In plants, the water deﬁcit conditions are recognized in roots,and then several molecular signals move from roots to shoots. Consequently, abscisic acid(ABA) phytohormone mediates resistance to drought stress by regulating stomatal closureand synthesizing stress-responsive gene expression in leaves, thereby affecting reductionin transpiration [84–87].3.2. Physiological and Biochemical Changes in Plants in Response to Drought StressPhotosynthesis, as mentioned above, is one of the main processes affected by waterstress leading to a decrease in plant growth. The decrease of photosynthetic rate un-der drought stress is the result of stomatal and non-stomatal limitations. The stomatallimitation is believed to be the main factor of photosynthetic rate decrease under milddrought while non-stomatal limitation under severe drought conditions. Stomatal clo-sure limits leaf absorption of CO 2and prevents transpiration water loss due to turgorpressure and/or reduced water potential [ 78]. Non-stomatal factors are related to thedecrease of activity or content of component, such as ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP)or ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCo) involved in the photosyn-thetic assimilation process and the efﬁciency of photosystem II (FPSII), respectively [ 88,89].Biochemical changes include the decline in chlorophyll levels, increase in Pro content,destruction of oxidative processes by the production of antioxidative enzymes, increase inABA levels, and synthesis of reactive oxygen species (ROS) [ 73]. Drought stress inhibits thechlorophyll synthesis (chlorophyll ‘a’ and ‘b’), changes in chlorophyll ‘a’/’b’ ratio, especiallyin drought-sensitive plant cultivars, thereby the efﬁciency of photosynthetic apparatus,resulting in the production of ROS. They are formed as a consequence of photosyntheticelectron transport reactions in the circumstances of a ﬂooded electron ﬂow system with adecreased pool size of electron acceptors [ 90–92]. Therefore, chlorophyll decline is one of themost injurious concerns of drought stress. In response to the deterioration of photosyntheticapparatus, synthesized ROS causes oxidation of carbohydrates, proteins, nucleic acids,lipids, as well as the destruction of the cell membrane [ 90,93]. Lipid peroxidation leads tooverproduction of malondialdehyde (MDA), which is one of the indicators of oxidativedamage [ 21,94–96]. Moreover, the accumulation of metabolites such as inorganic ions (Na+,K+, H+), amino acid (Pro), amine compounds (glycine betaine and polyamines), and sugar(trehalose, fructan, mannitol, etc.) in plants occurs for the regulation of osmotic potentialunder drought stress conditions. These substances are usually of small molecular weight,highly soluble, and have little toxicity to cells. They can maintain the normal osmoticpressure level, protect the protein activity and cell membrane structure, and so on [ 97–100].For example, the contents of Pro, glycine betaine, total soluble carbohydrate, and sucrosewere signiﬁcantly increased due to drought stress in several pistachio genotypes, as shownin the study of Khoyerdi et al. [101].Pro is well-known for its acclimatizing roles in plant stress tolerance, works as amolecular chaperone to alleviate the conﬁguration of proteins, and its high concentrationis considered an indicator of tolerance to water stress [ 102–105]. These amino acids arepreferentially stored in plant vacuoles and transported to the cytoplasm during osmoticstress. Increase of its concentration in cytoplasm leads to reduction of the osmotic potential,thus that the cell can still absorb extracellular water thus, maintaining the cell protoplasmand the external environment of osmotic balance. Proline can reduce the oxygen damagecaused by stress through chelating singlet oxygen and hydroxyl radical or stimulate theactivity of POD, catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), polyphenol oxidase (PPO),and other enzymes in plants to remove drought stress generated ROS. It has a strongability to hydrate and bind to proteins, therefore, stabilizing and protecting biologicalmacromolecules, maintaining their structure and activity, and cell membrane structures [ 78].Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 11 of 26Similarly, glycine betaine, as a water-soluble substance with amphoteric properties, canbind to both hydrophilic and hydrophobic regions of biological macromolecules suchas enzymes and acts as an osmotic regulator. It was found that glycine betaine protectsthe key enzymes of the dicarboxylic acid cycle, terminal oxidases, and the photosystem,which have important physiological signiﬁcance in maintaining proper respiration andphotosynthesis of plants [ 106]. However, the osmotic regulations can only temporaryimprove plant resistance to drought stress. If drought stress is severe, the turgor pressureof plants cannot be maintained [78].In addition, plants under drought stress can synthesize drought-induced functional(e.g., late embryogenesis abundant proteins, including dehydrins and aquaporins) andregulatory proteins (protein kinases, phospholipase C, phospholipase D, G protein, calmod-ulin, transcription factors, and some signaling factors). They are involved in the protectionof ion channel functioning, ROS scavenging, water molecule binding, enzyme activity(e.g., SOD, POD), PSII proteins, membrane structure, and water transport at cellular orsubcellular levels or in signal transduction or gene expression regulation, and play indirectprotective roles in water stress [78].Reactive oxygen species (ROS) include superoxide radical O 2 , H2O2, singlet oxy-gen1O2, hydroxyl radical OH, and organic oxygen radical (RO, ROO), etc. They can beproduced in plants through many metabolic pathways, namely in the process of photo-synthesis and respiration, as well as in other processes in mitochondria, chloroplasts, andperoxisomes. However, some other organelles or parts with high oxidation activity orstrong electron transfer function may also be involved in ROS production. In plants underdrought stress, ROS are overproduced mainly by chloroplasts and mitochondria [ 107–109].For example,OH can directly induce the peroxidation decomposition of the unsaturatedfatty acid chain in phospholipids, thus destroying of membrane structure. In addition, ROScan destroy almost all proteins or enzymes, break, degrade, or modify single or doublestrands of DNA [110–112].For scavenging the high levels of ROS, plants have developed complex enzymatic andnon-enzymatic systems. The former includes superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathioneperoxidase (GPX), catalase (CAT), and ascorbate peroxidase (APX), dehydroascorbatereductase (DHAR), monodehydroascorbate reductase (MDHAR), and glutathione reductase(GR), while the latter a low molecular weight antioxidant, namely reduced glutathione(GSH), ascorbic acid (AsA), vitamin E, mannitol, ﬂavonoids and carotenoids [ 78,113,114].SOD and APX are mainly localized in cytoplasm and chloroplasts, CAT in peroxisomes,GPX mainly in cytoplasm and mitochondria, and GR in chloroplasts [ 78]. The high amountof H 2O2in drought-stressed plants is generated as a consequence of SOD activity, whichtransforms superoxide radicals (O 2 ) to H 2O2and O 2. Generally, SOD activity increasedunder mild or short-term water stress but decreased under severe or long-term waterstress [ 78]. Generated H 2O2being toxic to plant cells is reduced to water by POD andAPX or converted to oxygen and water by CAT [ 97]. Moreover, GR, DHAR, and MDHARare also very important H 2O2scavenging enzymes [ 78]. All of these scavenging systemsnormalize H 2O2levels in plants [ 115]. Non-enzymatic ROS scavenging system involvessubstances that can react directly with ROS (GSH, AsA), act as substrates of enzymes inthe ROS scavenging mechanism, or, as in the case of vitamins, by scavenging oxygen freeradicals, preventing lipid peroxidation directly. GSH-AsA cycle is the main pathway ofGSH and AsA regeneration and antioxidant system in plants, which stabilizes the ROSlevel in the chloroplasts of plants [116].Sun et al. [ 117] analyzed the response of nearly 60 different plant species and theircultivars (e.g., oilseed rape, fava bean, maize, wheat, mustard, mung bean, soybean,Euphorbia tirucalli ,Coffea arabica , oak, cedar, Norway spruce, apple plants, and many more)to water stress (the median water stress intensity of 0.52 and experimental duration of36 days ) based on several independent variables of plant tissues such as leaf, shoots, roots,and whole plants. Water stress intensity was calculated as the proportional reduction in soilmoisture (reduced soil moisture under water stress treatment/soil moisture in the controlAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 12 of 26groups). They conducted meta-data analyses wherein a huge amount of data was collectedfrom 1301 paired observations of 84 studies across the globe and estimated the impact ofshort-term drought on plants. Based on the morphology, physiology, and functionalitiesof plants, they analyzed plant growth (dry weight and protein), photosynthetic character-istics (chlorophyll; maximal efﬁciency of PSII photochemistry; photochemical quenchingcoefﬁcient), plasma membrane permeability (ROS, MDA, and electrolyte leakage), enzy-matic antioxidants (APX, GR, glutathione reductase, CAT, POD, SOD) and nonenzymaticantioxidants (ABA, AsA, Pro, carotenoids, soluble sugars). Overall, a signiﬁcant increase inplasma membrane permeability (PMP), enzymatic antioxidants (EA), and nonenzymaticantioxidants (NEA) under water stress, but a decrease in plant growth and PS globally wasobserved, as shown in Table 2. An increase in ROS (by 65.7%), MDA (by 44.2%), and EL(99.4%) shows malfunctioning of the plasma membrane and lipid peroxidation, therebycausing oxidative stress while decrease in chlorophyll (Chl) content (by 24%), maximalefﬁciency of PSII photochemistry (Fv/Fm; by 13%) and photochemical quenching coefﬁ-cient (qP; by 26.4%) indicates damage of photosynthetic organs and altered leaf structureunder water stress conditions. An increase in EA (CAT, POD, and SOD) reveals the abilityof the plants to manage water stress by maintaining normal metabolic processes. HighNEA levels, especially ABA (+126%), Pro (+136.8%), and soluble sugar (+116.9%) contentsunder water stress suggest the plant adaptation mechanisms in order to endure the adverseeffect of ROS under water stress. Thus, this meta-analysis proved the negative impact ofwater stress on overall plant growth and performance.Table 2. Plant morphology, physiology, and functionalities in response to drought, according tostudies by Sun et al. [117].Drought Indices (Groups) Average Values (%)Plasma membrane permeability (PMP) ROS "++ 65.7 MDA "+ 44.2 EL "++ 99.4Enzymatic antioxidants (EA) CAT "+ 28.8 POD "+ 28 SOD "+ 29.8 APX GR —Non-enzymatic antioxidants (NEA) ABA "+++ 126.6 AsA "+ 19.3 Proline "+++ 136.8 Soluble sugar "+++ 116.9 Car —Plant growth (PG) Leaves "+ 17.1 Shoots #+  20.5 Whole plants and roots — Dry weight #+  28.8 Protein —Photosynthesis (PS) Chl #+  23.9 Fv/Fm #+  13.1 qP #+  26.4Key: ROS, reactive oxygen species; MDA, malondialdehyde; EL, electrolyte leakage; CAT, catalase; POD, peroxi-dase; SOD, superoxide dismutase; APX, ascorbate peroxidase; GR, glutathione reductase; ABA, abscisic acid; AsA,ascorbate; Car, carotenoid; Chl, chlorophyll; Fv/Fm, maximal efﬁciency of PSII photochemistry; qP , photochemicalquenching coefﬁcient; -, no effect or no signiﬁcant response; ", increase;#, decrease; +, small effect; ++, mediumeffect; +++, strong effect.Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 13 of 263.3. Transcriptomic and Metabolomic Changes in Plants under Drought StressResponse of plants to water-deﬁcient conditions can be observed at transcriptomic andmetabolomic levels (Figure 2) [ 21,86,118]. You et al. [ 21] studied drought-tolerant (DT) anddrought-susceptible (DS) sesame genotypes under drought stress and found that DS plantswere more disturbed by stress conditions that was conﬁrmed at both transcriptional andmetabolic levels. Such plants contained more drought-responsive genes and metaboliteswhen compared to DT genotype. Transcriptomic analyses of DT and DS sesame plantsrevealed the presence of a total 2782 and 3542 up-regulated and 4163 and 4519 down-regulated genes, respectively. Among them, a set of core drought-responsive genes (atotal 2030 genes including 648 up-regulated and 1346 down-regulated genes) that weredifferentially expressed in both sesame genotypes under drought conditions was found.Upregulated core drought-responsive genes were involved in protein processing in the en-doplasmic reticulum, galactose metabolism, and plant hormone signal transduction, whiledown-regulated core drought-responsive genes in photosynthesis, fatty acid biosynthesis,sugar, and amino acid metabolism (amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, glycine,serine and threonine metabolism, phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis),DNA replication, and ribosome pathways. Transcriptomic analyses of both genotypesshowed that although they share common pathways to cope with drought stress, someunique ones, such as these related to alpha-Linolenic acid metabolism, valine, leucine, andisoleucine degradation, photosynthesis and peroxisome were recognized in DT sesameplants [ 21]. Many other transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses in plants under droughtstress highlighted the important role of amino acid metabolism and ABA metabolism andsignaling pathways for drought tolerance in plants [119–125].The most important metabolites, which are accumulated in plants under droughtstress include phytohormone ABA, amino acids such as tryptophan, phenylalanine, valine,leucine, tyrosine, saccharopine, Pro and 2-aminoadipate, 4-aminobutanoic acid (GABA),and organic acids, namely glutaric acid, and 2-methylcitric acid. Accumulation of trypto-han is thought to play an important role in the regulation of stomata, osmotic adjustment,and ROS scavenging [ 126]. Especially, higher levels of ABA, Pro, arginine, lysine, aromaticand branched-chain amino acids, GABA, saccharopine, 2-aminoadipate, and allantoin werefound in drought-tolerant sesame plants under drought conditions [ 21]. Similarly, drought-tolerant chickpea plants showed a lower level of oxidative damage than their drought-sensitive counterparts and higher activity of POD, CAT, AsA, and GSH and accumulationof Pro and consequently lower production of H 2O2or MDA [ 20]. In contrast, some nucle-osides and nucleotides such as guanosine, uridine, adenosine monophosphate, cytidinemonophosphate, guanosine monophosphate, and uridine monophosphate), and sugarssuch as D-galactose and stachyose were reduced under drought stress in both DS and DTsesame genotypes [21].In addition, other genes encoding for chaperones, including heat shock proteins(HSP) and small heat shock proteins (sHSP), Dna J proteins, aquaporins, orthologs ofABFs (ABA-Responsive-Element binding factors), and DREB2s (Dehydration-Responsive-Element-Binding Proteins 2), glutaredoxins (GRXs), glutathione S-transferase (GST), andmany more can also be involved in plant response to drought stress [ 127–136]. Transcrip-tome analysis of the many other plants or crops such as pine ( Pinus massoniana ) [137], teaoil camellia ( Camellia oleifera ) [138], maize ( Zea mays L.) [139], peanut ( Arachis hypogaea L.varieties) [ 140], endemic orchid species ( Dendrobium sinense ) [118] under drought stress alsoprovided insights into the molecular mechanism such as expression of drought stress genesand certain functional genes that helps the plant to cope with drought stress. Tahmasebiet al. [ 141] investigated the transcriptional response of two different plant species ( Oryzasativa (rice, C 3plant) and Zea mays (maize, C 4plant)) to drought stress based on 172 arraysin total from 11 drought stress studies. This meta-analysis also took into account the tran-scriptional response of shared differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in sorghum and barley,with respect to maize and rice, respectively, to drought stress, as shown in Table 3. In thismeta-analysis, gene ontology (GO) analysis showed DEGs associated with photosynthesis,Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 14 of 26metabolic pathways, and stress response. In maize, genes encoding for cytochrome c oxi-dase protein (COX19-like), metabolic processes, osmotic stress, photosynthesis, antioxidantactivity, DNA complex, defense signaling pathways, heat shock protein, photosyntheticgas exchange as well as other DEGs play an important role in drought tolerance. In rice,dehydrin protein (RAB16B) genes that are responsible for drought tolerance were highlyupregulated, and also genes responsible for stress tolerance, plant transduction, photo-synthesis, metabolic processes, oxidoreductase activity, and other DEGs, as mentioned inTable 4, were expressed. Several DEGs were identiﬁed under stress conditions in both plantspecies, as listed in Tables 3 and 4. In both C 3and C 4plants, genes such as transcriptionfactors, plastid translation, DNA replication and repair, antioxidant activity, and antioxi-dant defense genes were detected, as well as genes related to the hormone cytokinin, planthormone signal transduction, and carbon ﬁxation were differentially co-expressed betweenspecies under stress conditions. This study reﬂects on similarities and differences amongthe two plant species, such as the response to stress, small molecule metabolic process,response to cytokinin, and photosynthesis. Therefore, this meta-analysis indicated theinﬂuence of drought on the biological processes of both plants at a larger scale, therebyreﬂecting the importance of transcriptomic studies for obtaining precise information onplant response to drought stress.Table 3. Meta-analysis on the transcriptional response of Sorghum and Barley to drought stress,according to a study by Tahmasebi et al. [141].Variables Sorghum BarleyTotal DEGs 300 genes (2% orthologous with one of maize) 2065 genes (7.2% orthologous with one of rice)DEGs associated genesAlkaloid biosynthesis, plant hormone signal transduction, MAPK signalling pathway, response toabiotic stimulus, and carbon metabolism.Transporter genesTransmembrane transporter activity genes-SPX(Sb06g025950) and MS channel gene (Sb10g006710)ABC transporter system- Contig18416_at andContig13030_s_atShared DEGs With maize- ASR protein With rice- biosynthesis of secondary metabolitesKey: DEGs, differentially expressed genes; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinases; ABC, ATP-binding cassette;ASR, abscisic acid- stress- ripening-induced.Table 4. Meta-analysis on the transcriptional response of Rice and Maize to drought stress, accordingto a study by Tahmasebi et al. [141].Variables Maize RiceTotal DEGs 4915 7291Upregulated genes 2532 3491Downregulated genes 2383 3800Highly upregulated identiﬁed DEGsProbesets related to Cox family,fasciclin-like arabinogalactan proteinsThree genes encoding for Di19drought-induced 19RAB16B and RAB21 genesMost highly downregulated identiﬁed DEGs Histone H3-like proteins PMEI-like and PEAMT2 genesStress tolerance genes Heat shock proteins LEA, HSP70, WSI76, and DREB1CPredictive accuracy 97.22% 98.72%1. Gene Ontology Enrichment Analysis inEach Species:DEGsSmall molecule metabolic processResponse to chemicalCarbohydrate metabolic processOrganic acid metabolic processPlant hormone signal transductionUpregulated DEGs Response to osmotic stressResponse to temperature stimulusResponse to salt stressResponse to osmotic stressAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 15 of 26Table 4. Cont.Variables Maize RiceDownregulated DEGsPhotosynthesisCofactor metabolic processPhotosynthesisLight reactionGO terms:Biological processes 47 DEGsPhotosynthesisSmall molecule metabolic processOxidation-reduction processResponse to abiotic stimulus30 DEGsSpecies-speciﬁc enriched biological processes 34% 25%Molecular functionCation bindingMetal ion bindingAntioxidant activity8 DEGsOxidoreductase activityCatalytic activity8 DEGsCellular component termsDNA packaging complexNucleosomeThylakoid28 DEGsChloroplastPlastid31 DEGsCommon biological processes Metabolic process and upregulated response to stress (41% common)2. Pathway Enrichment:Enriched with metabolic pathwaysCarbon metabolism-related termsPhotosynthesis Biosynthesis ofsecondary metabolites pathways13 KEGG pathways Downregulatedphotosynthesis pathway Carbonﬁxation in photosynthesis genesExpression of hormonesignal transductionUpregulated metabolic pathways and genesAsparagine synthetase, acyl-CoA oxidase and peroxidases, with 1 and 9 uniquepathways in maize and rice.3. Identiﬁcation of Consensus Modules:Genes related to response to waterdeprivation and small moleculemetabolic processBP-10, KEGG-5Cell wall organization and cell cycle BP- 18, KEGG- 3Photosynthesis BP- 6, KEGG- 6Biogenesis and biosynthesis BP- 6, KEGG- 24. Identiﬁcation of Hub Genes: Mainly enriched in pyrimidine metabolismCell wall organization and cell cycle FOR1 and PV72Biogenesis and biosynthesis PDHE1-A and HyPRP18Genes related to response to water deprivationand small molecule metabolic processProtein of unknown function DUF676 and PDX1Photosynthesis Ankyrin-like protein and UBC375. Identification of Differential Co-expressionModules:Photosynthesis and response to cytokinin MF- 5, BP- 8, KEGG- 3Organic acid catabolic process MF- 2, BP- 17, KEGG- 6Response to stress MF- 2, BP- 9, KEGG- 1Cell wall organization MF- 8, BP- 30, KEGG- 3Alanine, aspartate, glutamate metabolism(KEGG: 00250) enriched pathwaysamong genesMF- 1, KEGG- 16. Co-localization of DEGs withQTL Intervals:DEGs localized within QTLs regions 801 DEGs 1724 DEGsDrought tolerance 141 (2.8%) 122 (1.6%)Photosynthetic gas exchange 444 (10.5%) 139 (1.9%)d13C 59 (1.2%) 105 (1.4%)Root characteristics traits 157 (3.19%) 1358 (18.6%)Key: DEGs, differentially expressed genes; Cox, cytochrome c oxidase protein; Di19 drought-induced 19; BP ,biological process; KEGG, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes; MF, molecular functions; d13C, Cisotope signature.Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 16 of 264. Plant Growth Promotion and Protection by PGPB and PGPF underDrought ConditionsFor the functioning of ecosystems, interactions between plants and soil microorgan-isms are of utmost importance, along with their response to climate changes [ 142,143].Root exudates composed of enzymes, mucilage, ions, sugars, organic acids, amino acids,and so on actually decide the overall selection of root microbiome, as they attract beneﬁcialbacteria. Changes in the composition of root exudates (e.g., presence of stress signals)during stressful conditions may signiﬁcantly affect the root microbiome [ 50,144], as dis-cussed previously. Under drought conditions, mucilaginous material secreted by the rootsbecomes the major carbon nutrient source for microorganisms, thereby enhancing thenearby microbial biomass and altering the soil microbiome composition [ 145–147]. There-fore, efﬁcient management and maintaining rhizospheric microorganisms are vital for thewell-functioning of cropping practices [ 148]. Rhizosphere microbial communities adapttheir structural and functional compositions to water scarcity and have the potential tosubstantially mitigate the drought stress of crops. Metagenomic analysis of the rhizobac-terial communities revealed changes at the genome level in order to cope with droughtstress. Such changes included enhancement of functional genes encoding for enzymesresponsible for the breakdown of complex carbohydrates such as fructan and dextran,decrease in bioﬁlm, and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) deaminase produc-tion, and reduction in genes encoding for spermidine (R,R)-butanediol dehydrogenase andglutathione. [ 22]. The plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) and fungi (PGPF) bycolonizing the root areas are known to contribute towards the plant adaptive mechanism inorder to help the plant to survive the adverse effects of drought stress, as shown in Table 5.Microorganisms associated with plant roots minimize the harmful effects of stresses bydelaying wilt and drought-induced changes (stomatal conductance, photosynthesis, andleaf discoloration), increasing amino acid content and Pro production, reducing H 2O2content, and increasing total phenolics in plants [ 1,149–153], increase nitrogen ﬁxation,nutrients uptake, siderophore, phytohormone and secondary metabolite production, syn-thesis of exopolysaccharides (EPS), and many other organic compounds, and enhanceenzyme activities [154–164], and many more (Table 5).Table 5. Plant growth-promoting mechanisms by PGPR in drought stress conditions.Microorganisms Plants Protection/Effect/Mechanisms ReferencesAzospirillum lipoferum Maize ( Zea mays. L)Improves growth of the plant,increase in amino acid contents,sugar accumulation,and Pro production.[165]Bacillus spp. Maize ( Zea mays. L)Improves intake of soluble sugar,amino acids, and Pro reduces lossof electrolytes and activity ofcatalase and glutathionePER enzymes.[166]Pseudomonas putida strain GAP-P45Sunﬂower (var. SunbredHelianthus annuus L.)Improved uptake of nutrients inplant and increased growth ofthe plant.[167]Bacillus licheformis strain K11 Pepper (Capsicum annum )Promotes growth of pepper,produces ACC deaminase, andprevents phytophthora blight.[168]Rhizobium tropici and PaenibacilluspolymyxaBean (Phaseolus vulgaris)Improved growth, nodulation,and nitrogen content.[169]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 17 of 26Table 5. Cont.Microorganisms Plants Protection/Effect/Mechanisms ReferencesSinorhizobium medicaeBarrel medic (Medicagotruncatula)Delay in drought-induced leafsenescence, increase in potassium,drought-responsive proteins, andosmolyte production.[170]Bacillus amyloliquefaciens 5113 andAzospirillum brasilense NO40Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)Improves plant growth, enhancesenzyme activities(mono-dehydroascorbatereductase (MDHAR), glutathionereductase (GR), anddehydroascorbate reductase(DHAR) and APX), lowerantioxidant enzyme activities, andincreases photosynthesis.[171]Pseudomonas libanensis TR1 andPseudomonas reactans Ph3R3Smooth-stem turnip (Brassicaoxyrrhina)Enhances plant growth, leafrelative water content (RWC),resistance to heavy metals andantibiotics, increased chlorophyllcontent, and decrease inmalondialdehyde content.[172]Pseudomonas putida MTCC5279 (RA) Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.)Improves plant growth, noduleformation, low antioxidantenzymes, and increasesbiochemical responses.[173]Piriformospora indicaThale cress (Arabidopsisthaliana)Expression of stress-related genes. [174]Rhizobium leguminosarum (LR-30) ,Mesorhizobium ciceri (CR-30 and CR39),and Rhizobium phaseoli (MR-2)Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)Improved root colonization,nutrient or water holding capacityof the rhizosphere, Improveddrought tolerance index of thewheat seedlings, enhanced theroot or shoot lengths and fresh ordry biomass of the seedlings,production of phytohormones(IAA), exopolysaccharides orcatalase, osmolytes andantioxidants in the rhizosphere.[175]Azospirillum sp. Wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) Plant growth enhancement. [42]Trichoderma harzianum Rice ( Oryza sativa L.)Delay to wilt, drought-inducedchanges (stomatal conductance,photosynthesis, and leafdiscoloration), promote plantgrowth, increase in Pro content,reduction in H 2O2content, andincrease in total phenolics.[153]Glomus etunicatum English walnut ( Juglans regia )Improve height, fresh weight, andthe number of leaves of thewalnut plant increased thebiosynthesis of some metabolites,including soluble sugar and Pro,total phenolic content, peroxidaseactivity, and starch content as wellas peroxidase enzyme activity.[176]Ampelomyces sp.Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicumvar. Better Boy)Enhancement of plant growth,fruit yield, drought tolerance andresistance to pathogens.[177]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 18 of 26Table 5. Cont.Microorganisms Plants Protection/Effect/Mechanisms ReferencesGlomus lamellosum and GlomusetunicatumCinnamon ( Cinnamomummigao )Improvement in seedling growth,higher POD and CAT activity,decrease in sugar andosmoreceptor content, reductionof accumulation of MDA, andenhancement ofwater-use efﬁciency in the plant.[178]Alternaria sp. and Trichoderma harzianumTomato ( Solanum lycopersicumvar. Rutger)Improvement in root and shootbiomass, enhancement ofwater-use efﬁciency, and betterphotosynthetic efﬁciency.[179]5. Conclusions and Further PerspectivesAccording to the recent studies [ 6,10,11] and last reports of ICCP [ 2] and EEA, anthro-pogenic activities have signiﬁcantly contributed towards climate change and drought thatis the most important consequence of climate change in recent decades with a negativeinﬂuence on our ecosystem, agriculture, and economy [ 6–10]. In this review article, wediscussed various impacts of drought on soil microbial communities and plants. Althoughin previously published papers, the impact of drought on microbial community abundance,structure, and activity was described, our current knowledge is still incomplete. Soil is avery complex environment. Therefore, microbial community structure and its activity arenot easy to explore and predict. The type of soil, especially the content of organic matter andthe accompanying type of vegetation, is a very important aspect in determining changes inthe structure and activity of soil microorganisms and subsequently enzyme activities, pools,ﬂuxes, and carbon and nitrogen cycles. There are still relatively few metagenomic studies ofmicroorganisms inhabiting drought-affected soil environments, and this scientiﬁc problemshould be solved. Comprehensive analyses of microbial genome sequences, especiallydrought-tolerant ones, for genes encoding for drought stress-related compounds seem to bea promising tool to broaden our knowledge on how microorganisms cope with such harshconditions. To date, synthesis of polysaccharides, xeroprotectants such as soluble sugars,proteins, and amino acids, as well as phytohormones (ABA, JA, ACC, IAA), and manymore were described to increase microbial and plant resistance. An especially interestingsolution to mitigate the negative effects of drought stress in the soil, mainly semiarid andarid ones, and improve microbial abundance, activity, and soil fertility by amendment ofsoil with various types of organic compounds, including compost, sewage sludge, and mu-nicipal solid waste [ 43]. In addition, the use of speciﬁc compounds such as plant hormoneswas also proposed [ 25]. However, the response of microorganisms to phytohormones isambiguous and further research is required.Plants respond to water scarcity in different ways, and this is a complex process that westill need to work on to unravel completely. In past studies, changes in plant morphology,anatomy, biochemistry, and physiology under drought stress were described in detail.However, plant response to such extreme conditions at the trancriptomic and metabolomiclevels is still deﬁcient. Therefore, more studies on the response of different plant species todrought stress are required to understand various adaptive mechanisms evolved in theseorganisms. In addition, meta-analysis studies seem to be a valuable approach to knowglobal patterns of changes in the microbial community, its activity, and plants affected bystress conditions.Based on the current knowledge, some improvement in crop management skills suchas handling or selection of appropriate crops and soil, maintaining good levels of soil watercontent, insertion of abiotic stress tolerance traits into the plants using genetic engineeringor genome editing technologies were proposed to increase plant productivity in such abioticstress. Moreover, application of osmolytes, potassium, hydrogels, nanoparticles, mineralAgronomy 2022 ,12, 189 19 of 26nutrient (silicon), antioxidative protectant (selenium), and plant growth regulators suchas uniconazole and salicylic acid were considered to increase plant yield under abioticstress [ 1,73,129,180–183]. In addition, the application of plant hormones such as ABA,gibberellic acid (GA), ethylene, auxins, JA, cytokinins, and brassinolide (BR) that regulatedifferent beneﬁcial mechanisms in the plants can help them to cope with the adverseeffects of droughts [ 1,73]. A summarized outline of possible approaches for managing croppractices under drought stress is represented in Figure 3.Agronomy 2022 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 26    Figure 3. Future possible perspectives in order to mitigate drought stress. Author Contributions: Conceptualization, M.W.; writing—orig inal draft preparation, K.B.; writ-ing—review and editing K.B. and M.W.; visualizatio n, K.B.; supervision, M.W.; funding acquisition, K.B. All authors have read and agreed to  the published version of the manuscript. Funding:  The APC was funded by Nicolaus Copernicus University. Data Availability Statement:  No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing is not applicable to this article. Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of inte rest. The funders had no role in the design of the study, in the collection, analyses, or  interpretation of data and in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decisi on to publish the results. References 1. Lamaoui, M.; Jemo, M.; Datla, R.; Bekkaoui, F. Heat and dr ought stresses in crops and approaches for their mitigation. Front. Chem.  2018 , 6, 1–14. 2. IPCC. Summary for Policymakers. In Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis . Contribution of Working Group I to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; MassonDelmotte, V., Zhai, P., Pirani, A., Connors, S.L., Péan, C., Berger, S., Caud, N., Chen, Y., Goldfarb , L., Gomis, M.I., et al., Eds.; Cambridg e University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2021, in press . 3. Kala, C.P. Environmental and socioeconomic impacts of  drought in India: Lessons for drought management. Appl. Ecol. Environ. Res. 2017 , 5, 43–48. 4. Silva, E.C.D.; Albuquerque, M.B.D.; Ne to, A.D.D.A.; Junior, C.D.D.S. Responses of Organisms to Water Stress. In Drought and Its Consequences to Plants- fr om Individual to Ecosystem , 1st ed.; Akinci, S., Ed.; Chapter 2; Şener Ak ıncı: London, UK, 2013; pp. 17–47. 5. Abdul Rahman, N.S.N.; Abdul Hamid, N.W.; Nadarajah, K. Effects of Abiotic Stress on Soil Microbiome. Int. J. Mol. Sci.  2021 , 22, 9036. 6. Khan, R.; Gilani, H. Global drought monitoring with big geospatial datasets using Google Earth Engine. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.  2021 , 28, 17244–17264. 7. Epule, E.T.; Peng, C.; Lepage, L.; Chen, Z. The causes, effect s and challenges of Sahelian droughts: A critical review. Reg. Environ. Chang.  2014 , 14, 145–156. Figure 3. Future possible perspectives in order to mitigate drought stress.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, M.W.; writing—original draft preparation, K.B.; writing—review and editing K.B. and M.W.; visualization, K.B.; supervision, M.W.; funding acquisition, K.B.All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: The APC was funded by Nicolaus Copernicus University.Data Availability Statement: No new data were created or analyzed in this study. Data sharing isnot applicable to this article.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. The funders had no role in the designof the study, in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data and in the writing of the manuscript,or in the decision to publish the results.References1. Lamaoui, M.; Jemo, M.; Datla, R.; Bekkaoui, F. Heat and drought stresses in crops and approaches for their mitigation. Front. Chem.2018 ,6, 1–14. [CrossRef]2. IPCC. Summary for Policymakers. In Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the SixthAssessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ; MassonDelmotte, V ., Zhai, P ., Pirani, A., Connors, S.L., P éan, C.,Berger, S., Caud, N., Chen, Y., Goldfarb, L., Gomis, M.I., et al., Eds.; Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, UK, 2021; in press.3. Kala, C.P . Environmental and socioeconomic impacts of drought in India: Lessons for drought management. Appl. Ecol. Environ.Res. 2017 ,5, 43–48.Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 20 of 264. Silva, E.C.D.; Albuquerque, M.B.D.; Neto, A.D.D.A.; Junior, C.D.D.S. Responses of Organisms to Water Stress. In Drought and ItsConsequences to Plants- from Individual to Ecosystem , 1st ed.; Chapter 2; Akinci, S., Ed.; ¸ Sener Akıncı: London, UK, 2013; pp. 17–47.5. Abdul Rahman, N.S.N.; Abdul Hamid, N.W.; Nadarajah, K. Effects of Abiotic Stress on Soil Microbiome. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 9036.[PubMed]6. Khan, R.; Gilani, H. Global drought monitoring with big geospatial datasets using Google Earth Engine. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.2021 ,28, 17244–17264. [CrossRef] [PubMed]7. Epule, E.T.; Peng, C.; Lepage, L.; Chen, Z. The causes, effects and challenges of Sahelian droughts: A critical review. Reg. Environ.Chang. 2014 ,14, 145–156. [CrossRef]8. Wheaton, E.; Kulshreshtha, S.; Wittrock, V .; Koshida, G. Dry times: Hard lessons from the Canadian drought of 2001 and 2002.Can. Geograph. 2008 ,52, 241–262. [CrossRef]9. Gornall, J.; Betts, R.; Burke, E.; Clark, R.; Camp, J.; Willett, K.; Wiltshire, A. Implications of climate change for agriculturalproductivity in the early twenty-ﬁrst century. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. B Biol. Sci. 2010 ,365, 2973–2989. [CrossRef]10. Lesk, C.; Rowhani, P .; Ramankutty, N. Inﬂuence of extreme weather disasters on global crop production. Nature 2016 ,529, 84–87.[CrossRef]11. Grillakis, M.G. Increase in severe and extreme soil moisture droughts for Europe under climate change. Sci. Total Environ. 2019 ,660, 1245–1255. [CrossRef]12. Siebielec, S.; Siebielec, G.; Klimkowicz-Pawlas, A.; Gał ˛ azka, A.; Grz ˛ adziel, J.; Stuczy´ nski, T. Impact of water stress on microbialcommunity and activity in sandy and loamy soils. Agronomy 2020 ,10, 1429. [CrossRef]13. Ziernicka-Wojtaszek, A. Summer Drought in 2019 on Polish Territory-A Case Study. Atmosphere 2021 ,12, 1475. [CrossRef]14. Kränzlein, M.; Geilfus, C.M.; Franzisky, B.L.; Zhang, X.; Wimmer, M.A.; Zörb, C. Physiological responses of contrasting maize(Zea mays L.) hybrids to repeated drought. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2021 , 1–11. [CrossRef]15. Jamil, M.; Ahamd, M.; Anwar, F.; Zahir, Z.A.; Kharal, M.A.; Nazli, F. Inducing drought tolerance in wheat through combined useof L-tryptophan and Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens .Pak. J. Agric. Sci. 2018 ,55, 331–337.16. Yin, B.; Wang, Y.; Liu, P .; Hu, J.; Zhen, W. Effects of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhiza on the protective system in strawberry leavesunder drought stress. Front. Agric. China 2010 ,4, 165–169. [CrossRef]17. Zapata, T.; Galindo, D.M.; Corrales-Ducuara, A.R.; Ocampo-Ib áñez, I.D. The diversity of culture-dependent gram-negativeRhizobacteria associated with Manihot esculenta crantz plants subjected to water-deﬁcit stress. Diversity 2021 ,13, 366. [CrossRef]18. Nguyen, L.T.T.; Osanai, Y.; Anderson, I.C.; Bange, M.P .; Tissue, D.T.; Singh, B.K. Flooding and prolonged drought have dierentiallegacy impacts on soil nitrogen cycling, microbial communities and plant productivity. Plant. Soil 2018 ,431, 371–387. [CrossRef]19. Hanaka, A.; Ozimek, E.; Reszczy /acute.ts1nska, E.; Jaroszuk- /acute.ts1Sciseł, J.; Stolarz, M. Plant tolerance to drought stress in the presence ofsupporting bacteria and fungi: An efﬁcient strategy in horticulture. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 390. [CrossRef]20. Khan, M.N.; Zhang, J.; Luo, T.; Liu, J.; Ni, F.; Rizwan, M.; Fahad, S.; Hu, L. Morpho-physiological and biochemical responses oftolerant and sensitive rapeseed cultivars to drought stress during early seedling growth stage. Acta Physiol. Plant 2019 ,41, 25.[CrossRef]21. You, J.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, A.; Li, D.; Wang, X.; Dossa, K.; Zhou, R.; Yu, J.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, L.; et al. Transcriptomic and metabolomicproﬁling of drought-tolerant and susceptible sesame genotypes in response to drought stress. BMC Plant Biol. 2019 ,19, 267.[CrossRef]22. Breitkreuz, C.; Herzig, L.; Buscot, F.; Reitz, T.; Tarkka, M. Interactions between soil properties, agricultural management andcultivar type drive structural and functional adaptations of the wheat rhizosphere microbiome to drought. Environ. Microbiol.2021 ,23, 5866–5882. [CrossRef] [PubMed]23. Miloševi´ c, N.A.; Marinkovi´ c, J.B.; Tintor, B.B. Mitigating abiotic stress in crop plants by microorganisms. Proc. Nat. Sci. MaticaSerpska Novi. Sad 2012 ,123, 17–26. [CrossRef]24. Pascual, J.A.; Hernandez, T.; Garcia, C.; Ayuso, M. Enzymatic activities in an arid soil amended with urban organic wastes:Laboratory experiment. Bioresour. Technol. 1998 ,64, 131–138. [CrossRef]25. Sayer, E.J.; Crawford, J.A.; Edgerley, J.; Askew, A.P .; Hahn, C.Z.; Whitlock, R.; Dodd, I.C. Adaptation to chronic drought modiﬁessoil microbial community responses to phytohormones. Commun. Biol. 2021 ,4, 516. [CrossRef]26. Schimel, J.; Balser, T.C.; Wallenstein, M. Microbial stress-response physiology and its implications for ecosystem function. Ecology2007 ,88, 1386–1394. [CrossRef]27. Yerbury, J.J.; Stewart, E.M.; Wyatt, A.R.; Wilson, M.R. Quality control of protein folding in extracellular space. EMBO Rep. 2005 ,6,1131–1136. [CrossRef] [PubMed]28. Csonka, L.N. Physiological and genetic responses of bacteria to osmotic stress. Microbiol. Rev. 1989 ,53, 121–147. [CrossRef]29. LeBlanc, J.C.; Gonçalves, E.R.; Mohn, W.W. Global response to desiccation stress in the soil actinomycete Rhodococcus jostiiRHA1. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2008 ,74, 2627–2636. [CrossRef]30. Narv áez-Reinaldo, J.J.; Barba, I.; Gonz ález-López, J.; Tunnacliffe, A.; Manzanera, M. Rapid method for isolation of desiccation-tolerant strains and xeroprotectants. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2010 ,76, 5254–5262. [CrossRef]31. Alvarez, H.M.; Silva, R.A.; Cesari, A.C.; Zamit, A.L.; Peressutti, S.R.; Reichelt, R.; Keller, U.; Malkus, U.; Rasch, C.; Maskow, T.;et al. Physiological and morphological responses of the soil bacterium Rhodococcus opacus strain PD630 to water stress. FEMSMicrobiol. Ecol. 2004 ,50, 75–86. [CrossRef]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 21 of 2632. Palud, A.; Salem, K.; Cavin, J.F.; Beney, L.; Licandro, H. Identiﬁcation and transcriptional proﬁle of Lactobacillus paracasei genesinvolved in the response to desiccation and rehydration. Food Microbiol. 2020 ,85, 103301. [CrossRef] [PubMed]33. Vílchez, J.I.; Garc ía-Fontana, C.; Rom án-Naranjo, D.; Gonz ález-López, J.; Manzanera, M. Plant drought tolerance enhancement bytrehalose production of desiccation-tolerant microorganisms. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1577. [CrossRef] [PubMed]34. Manzanera, M. Dealing with water stress and microbial preservation. Environ. Microbiol. 2021 ,23, 3351–3359. [CrossRef]35. Vílchez, J.I.; Niehaus, K.; Dowling, D.N.; Gonz ález-L ópez, J.; Manzanera, M. Protection of pepper plants from drought byMicrobacterium sp. 3J1 by modulation of the plant’s glutamine and -ketoglutarate content: A comparative metabolomicsapproach. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 284. [CrossRef] [PubMed]36. Tanne, C.; Golovina, E.A.; Hoekstra, F.A.; Meffert, A.; Galinski, E.A. Glass-forming property of hydroxyectoine is the cause of itssuperior function as a desiccation protectant. Front. Microbiol. 2014 ,5, 150. [CrossRef] [PubMed]37. Julca, I.; Alaminos, M.; Gonz ález-López, J.; Manzanera, M. Xeroprotectants for the stabilization of biomaterials. Biotechnol. Adv.2012 ,30, 1641–1654. [CrossRef] [PubMed]38. SantaCruz-Calvo, L.; Gonz ález-L ópez, J.; Manzanera, M. Arthrobacter siccitolerans sp. nov., a highly desiccation-tolerant,xeroprotectant-producing strain isolated from dry soil. Int. J. Syst. Evol. Microbiol. 2013 ,63, 4174–4180. [CrossRef] [PubMed]39. Da Costa, M.S.; Santos, H.; Galinski, E.A. An overview of the role and diversity of compatible solutes in Bacteria and Archaea.Adv. Biochem. Eng. Biotechnol. 1998 ,61, 117–153. [PubMed]40. Crisp, A.; Boschetti, C.; Perry, M.; Tunnacliffe, A.; Micklem, G. Expression of multiple horizontally acquired genes is a hallmark ofboth vertebrate and invertebrate genomes. Genome Biol. 2015 ,16, 50. [CrossRef]41. García-Fontana, C.; Narv áez-Reinaldo, J.J.; Castillo, F.; Gonz ález-López, J.; Luque, I.; Manzanera, M.A. New physiological role forthe DNA molecule as a protector against drying Stress in desiccation-tolerant microorganisms. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 2066.[CrossRef]42. Arzanesh, M.H.; Alikhani, H.A.; Khavazi, K.; Rahimian, H.A.; Miransari, M. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) growth enhancementby Azospirillum sp. under drought stress. World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2011 ,27, 197–205. [CrossRef]43. Hueso, S.; Garc ía, C.; Hern ández, T. Severe drought conditions modify the microbial community structure, size and activity inamended and unamended soils. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2012 ,50, 167–173. [CrossRef]44. Baldrian, P .; Merhautov á, V .; Petr ánková, M.; Cajthaml, T.; Šnajdr, J. Distribution of microbial biomass and activity of extracellularenzymes in a hardwood forest soil reﬂect soil moisture content. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2010 ,46, 177–182. [CrossRef]45. Bastida, F.; Torres, I.F.; Hern ández, T.; Garc ía, C. The impacts of organic amendments: Do they confer stability against drought onthe soil microbial community? Soil Biol. Biochem. 2017 ,113, 173–183. [CrossRef]46. Veach, A.M.; Zeglin, L.H. Historical drought affects microbial population dynamics and activity during soil drying and re-wet.Microb. Ecol. 2020 ,79, 662–674. [CrossRef]47. Castro, S.P .; Cleland, E.E.; Wagner, R.; Sawad, R.A.; Lipson, D.A. Soil microbial responses to drought and exotic plants shiftcarbon metabolism. ISME J. 2019 ,13, 1776. [CrossRef] [PubMed]48. Schimel, J.P . Life in dry soils: Effects of drought on soil microbial communities and processes. Annu. Rev. Ecol. Evol. 2018 ,49,409–432. [CrossRef]49. Yuste, J.C.; Penuelas, J.; Estiarte, M.; Garcia-mas, J.; Mattana, S.; Ogaya, R.; Pujol, M.; Sardans, J. Drought-resistant fungi controlsoil organic matter decomposition and its response to temperature. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2011 ,17, 1475–1486. [CrossRef]50. Naylor, D.; DeGraaf, S.; Purdom, E.; Coleman-Derr, D. Drought and host selection inﬂuence bacterial community dynamics in thegrass root microbiome. ISME J. 2017 ,11, 2691–2704. [CrossRef]51. Chernysheva, E.; Korobov, D.; Khomutova, T.; Fornasier, F.; Borisov, A. Soil microbiological properties in livestock corrals:An additional new line of evidence to identify livestock dung. J. Archaeol. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,37, 103012. [CrossRef]52. Kompała-B ˛ aba, A.; Bierza, W.; Sierka, E.; Bło´ nska, A.; Besenyei, L.; Wo´ zniak, G. The role of plants and soil properties in theenzyme activities of substrates on hard coal mine spoil heaps. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 5155. [CrossRef]53. Meena, A.; Rao, K.S. Assessment of soil microbial and enzyme activity in the rhizosphere zone under different land use/cover ofa semiarid region, India. Ecol. Process. 2021 ,10, 1–12. [CrossRef]54. Shukla, G.; Varma, A. (Eds.) Soil Enzymology ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2011; pp. 1–392.55. Hemkemeyer, M.; Schwalb, S.A.; Heinze, S.; Joergensen, R.G.; Wichern, F. Functions of elements in soil microorganisms.Microb. Res. 2021 ,252, 126832. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Mulvaney, R.L.; Bremner, J.M. Use of p-benzoquinone and hydroquinone for retardation of urea hydrolysis in soils. Soil Biol.Biochem. 1978 ,10, 297–302. [CrossRef]57. Hu, J.; Lin, X.; Wang, J.; Dai, J.; Chen, R.; Zhang, J.; Wong, M.H. Microbial functional diversity, metabolic quotient, and invertaseactivity of a sandy loam soil as affected by long-term application of organic amendment and mineral fertilizer. J. Soils Sediments2011 ,11, 271–280. [CrossRef]58. Bakshi, M.; Varma, A. Soil Enzyme: The State-of-Art. In Soil Enzymology ; Shukla, G., Varma, A., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,Germany, 2011; Volume 22, pp. 1–23.59. Sardans, J.; Peñuelas, J. Drought decreases soil enzyme activity in a Mediterranean Quercus ilex L. forest. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2005 ,37, 455–461. [CrossRef]60. Bååth, E.; Söderström, B. Seasonal and spatial variation in fungal biomass in a forest soil. Soil Biol. Biochem. 1982 ,14, 353–358.[CrossRef]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 22 of 2661. Larned, S.T.; Datry, T.; Robinson, C. Invertebrate and microbial responses to inundation in an ephemeral river reach in NewZealand: Effects of preceding dry periods. Aquat. Sci. 2007 ,69, 554–567. [CrossRef]62. Pohlon, E.; Fandino, A.O.; Marxsen, J. Bacterial community composition and extracellular enzyme activity in temperate streambedsediment during drying and rewetting. PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e83365. [CrossRef] [PubMed]63. Schreckinger, J.; Mutz, M.; Mendoza-Lera, C.; Frossard, A. Attributes of drying deﬁne the structure and functioning of microbialcommunities in temperate riverbed sediment. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 676615. [CrossRef]64. Sirov á, D.; Vrba, J.; Rejm ánkov á, E. Extracellular enzyme activities in benthic cyanobacterial mats: Comparison betweennutrient-enriched and control sites in marshes of northern Belize. Aquat. Microb. Ecol. 2006 ,44, 11–20. [CrossRef]65. Criquet, S.; Farnet, A.M.; Tagger, S.; Le Petit, J. Annual variations of phenoloxidase activities in an evergreen oak litter: Inﬂuenceof certain biotic and abiotic factors. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2000 ,32, 1505–1513. [CrossRef]66. Criquet, S.; Ferre, E.; Farnet, A.M.; Le petit, J. Annual dynamics of phosphatase activities in an evergreen oak litter: Inﬂuence ofbiotic and abiotic factors. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2004 ,36, 1111–1118. [CrossRef]67. Siebielec, G.; Siebielec, S.; Lipski, D. Long-term impact of sewage sludge, digestate and mineral fertilizers on plant yield and soilbiological activity. J. Clean. Prod. 2018 ,187, 372–379. [CrossRef]68. Weintraub, M.N.; Scott-Denton, L.E.; Schmidt, S.K.; Monson, R.K. The effects of tree rhizodeposition on soil exoenzyme activity,dissolved organic carbon, and nutrient availability in a subalpine forest ecosystem. Oecologia 2007 ,154, 327–338. [CrossRef][PubMed]69. Preece, C.; Verbruggen, E.; Liu, L.; Weedon, J.T.; Peñuelas, J. Effects of past and current drought on the composition and diversityof soil microbial communities. Soil Biol. Biochem. 2019 ,131, 28–39. [CrossRef]70. Gleeson, D.B.; Herrmann, A.M.; Livesley, S.J.; Murphy, D.V . Inﬂuence of water potential on nitriﬁcation and structure of nitrifyingbacterial communities in semiarid soils. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2008 ,40, 189–194. [CrossRef]71. Fuchslueger, L.; Kastl, E.M.; Bauer, F.; Kienzl, S.; Hasibeder, R.; Ladreiter-Knauss, T.; Schmidt, M.; Bahn, M.; Schloter, M.; Richter,A.; et al. Effect of drought on nitrogen turnover and abundances of ammonia-oxidizers in mountain grassland. Biogeosciences2014 ,11, 6003–6015. [CrossRef]72. Deng, L.; Peng, C.; Kim, D.G.; Li, J.; Liu, Y.; Hai, X.; Liu, Q.; Huang, C.; Shangguan, Z.; Kuzyakov, Y. Drought effects on soilcarbon and nitrogen dynamics in global natural ecosystems. Earth Sci. Rev. 2021 ,214, 103501. [CrossRef]73. Hewedy, O.A.; Abdel Lateif, K.S.; Seleiman, M.F.; Shami, A.; Albarakaty, F.M.; El-Meihy, R.M. Phylogenetic diversity of Trichodermastrains and their antagonistic potential against soil-borne pathogens under stress conditions. Biology 2020 ,9, 189. [CrossRef]74. Wang, W.X.; Vinocur, B.; Shoseyov, O.; Altman, A. Biotechnology of plant osmotic stress tolerance: Physiological and molecularconsiderations. Acta Hortic. 2001 ,560, 285–292. [CrossRef]75. Wilmowicz, E.; Ku´ cko, A.; Goli´ nska, P .; Burchardt, S.; Przywieczerski, T.; ´Swidzi´ nski, M.; Brzozowska, P .; Kapu´ sci´ nska, D.Abscisic acid and ethylene in the control of nodule-speciﬁc response on drought in yellow lupine. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2020 ,169,103900. [CrossRef]76. Ulrich, D.E.M.; Sevanto, S.; Ryan, M.; Albright, M.B.N.; Johansen, R.B.; Dunbar, J.M. Plant-microbe interactions before droughtinﬂuence plant physiological responses to subsequent severe drought. Sci. Rep. 2019 ,9, 249. [CrossRef]77. Jabbari, H.; Akbari, G.A.; Sima, N.A.K.K.; Rad, A.H.S.; Alahdadi, I.; Hamed, A.; Shariatpanahi, M.E. Relationships betweenseedling establishment and soil moisture content for winter and spring rapeseed genotypes. Ind. Crops Prod. 2013 ,49, 177–187.[CrossRef]78. Yang, X.; Lu, M.; Wang, Y.; Wang, Y.; Liu, Z.; Chen, S. Response Mechanism of Plants to Drought Stress. Horticulturae 2021 ,7, 50.[CrossRef]79. Sangtarash, M.H.; Qaderi, M.M.; Chinnappa, C.C.; Reid, D.M. Differential sensitivity of canola ( Brassica napus L.) seedlings toultraviolet-B radiation, water stress and abscisic acid. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2009 ,66, 212–219. [CrossRef]80. Qaderi, M.M.; Kurepin, L.V .; Reid, D.M. Effects of temperature and watering regime on growth gas exchange and abscisic acidcontent of canola ( Brassica napus L.) seedlings. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2012 ,75, 107–113. [CrossRef]81. Liu, D.; Wu, L.; Naeem, M.S.; Liu, H.; Deng, X.; Xu, L.; Zhang, F.; Zhou, W. 5-Aminolevulinic acid enhances photosynthetic gasexchange, chlorophyll ﬂuorescence and antioxidant system in oilseed rape under drought stress. Acta Physiol. Plant 2013 ,35,2747–2759. [CrossRef]82. Chartzoulakis, K.; Patakas, A.; Koﬁdis, G.; Bosabalidis, A.; Nastou, A. Water stress affects leaf anatomy, gas exchange, waterrelations and growth of two avocado cultivars. Sci. Hortic. 2002 ,95, 39–50. [CrossRef]83. Furlan, A.; Llanes, A.; Luna, V .; Castro, S. Physiological and biochemical responses to drought stress and subsequent rehydrationin the symbiotic association peanut- Bradyrhizobium sp.ISRN Agron. 2012 ,2012 , 890–895. [CrossRef]84. Cutler, S.R.; Rodriguez, P .L.; Finkelstein, R.R.; Abrams, S.R. Abscisic acid: Emergence of a core signaling network. Annu. Rev.Plant Biol. 2010 ,61, 651–679. [CrossRef] [PubMed]85. Calvo, O.C.; Franzaring, J.; Schmid, I.; Müller, M.; Brohon, N.; Fangmeier, A. Atmospheric CO 2enrichment and drought stressmodify root exudation of barley. Glob. Chang. Biol. 2016 ,23, 1292–1304. [CrossRef] [PubMed]86. Galeano, E.; Vasconcelos, T.S.; Novais de Oliveira, P .N.; Carrer, H. Physiological and molecular responses to drought stress in teak(Tectona grandis L.f.). PLoS ONE 2019 ,14, e0221571. [CrossRef]87. Takahashi, F.; Kuromori, T.; Urano, K.; Yamaguchi-Shinozaki, K.; Shinozaki, K. Drought stress responses and resistance in plants:From cellular responses to long-distance intercellular communication. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 556972. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 23 of 2688. Gimenez, C.; Mitchell, V .J.; Lawlor, D.W. Regulation of photosynthetic rate of two sunﬂower hybrids under water stress.Plant Physiol. 1992 ,98, 516–524. [CrossRef] [PubMed]89. Ma, P .; Bai, T.H.; Ma, F.W. Effects of progressive drought on photosynthesis and partitioning of absorbed light in apple trees.J. Integr. Agric. 2015 ,14, 681–690. [CrossRef]90. Reddy, A.R.; Chaitanya, K.V .; Vivekanandan, M. Drought-induced responses of photosynthesis and antioxidant metabolism inhigher plants. J. Plant Physiol. 2004 ,161, 1189–1202. [CrossRef]91. Feng, Y.L.; Cao, K.F. Photosynthesis and photo inhibition after night chilling in seedlings of two tropical tree species grown underthree irradiances. Photosynthetica 2005 ,43, 567–574. [CrossRef]92. Azzeme, A.M.; Abdullah, S.N.A.; Aziz, M.A.; Wahab, P .E.M. Oil palm leaves and roots differ in physiological response, antioxidantenzyme activities and expression of stress-responsive genes upon exposure to drought stress. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2016 ,38, 1–12.[CrossRef]93. Sabra, A.; Daayf, F.; Renault, S. Differential physiological and biochemical responses of three Echinacea species to salinity stress.Scientia. Hort. 2012 ,135, 23–31. [CrossRef]94. Tarazona, P .; Feussner, K.; Feussner, I. An enhanced plant lipidomics method based on multiplexed liquid chromatography-massspectrometry reveals additional insights into cold- and drought-induced membrane remodeling. Plant J. 2015 ,84, 621–633.[CrossRef]95. Dossa, K.; Li, D.; Wang, L.; Zheng, X.; Liu, A.; Yu, J.; Wei, X.; Zhou, R.; Fonceka, D.; Diouf, D.; et al. Transcriptomic, biochemicaland physio-anatomical investigations shed more light on responses to drought stress in two contrasting sesame genotypes.Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 8755. [CrossRef]96. Bao, G.; Tang, W.; An, Q.; Liu, Y.; Tian, J.; Zhao, N.; Zhu, S. Physiological effects of the combined stresses of freezing-thawing,acid precipitation and deicing salt on alfalfa seedlings. BMC Plant Biol. 2020 ,20, 204. [CrossRef]97. Gupta, N.; Thind, S.K.; Bains, N.S. Glycine betaine application modiﬁes biochemical attributes of osmotic adjustment in droughtstressed wheat. Plant Growth Regul. 2014 ,72, 221–228. [CrossRef]98. Abdi, G.; Shokrpour, M.; Karami, L.; Salami, S.A. Prolonged water deﬁcit stress and methyl jasmonate-mediated changes inmetabolite proﬁle, ﬂavonoid concentrations and antioxidant activity in peppermint ( Menthapiperita L.).Not. Bot. Horti. Agrobo.2019 ,47, 70–80. [CrossRef]99. Hou, P .; Wang, F.; Luo, B.; Li, A.; Wang, C.; Shabala, L.; Ahmed, H.A.I.; Deng, S.; Zhang, H.; Song, P .; et al. Antioxidant enzymaticactivity and osmotic adjustment as components of the drought tolerance mechanism in Carex duriuscula .Plants 2021 ,10, 436.[CrossRef] [PubMed]100. Ozturk, M.; Unal, B.T.; Garc ía-Caparr ós, P .; Khursheed, A.; Gul, A.; Hasanuzzaman, M. Osmoregulation and its actions duringthe drought stress in plants. Physiol. Plant. 2021 ,172, 1321–1335. [CrossRef] [PubMed]101. Khoyerdi, F.F.; Shamshiri, M.H.; Estaji, A. Changes in some physiological and osmotic parameters of several pistachio genotypesunder drought stress. Sci. Hortic. 2016 ,198, 44–51. [CrossRef]102. Liu, C.; Wang, Y.; Pan, K.; Li, W.; Zhang, L.; Shen, X.; Liu, L.; Deng, M. Responses of antioxidant defense system to drought stressin the leaves of Fargesia denudata seedlings, the staple food on the giant panda. Russ. J. Plant Physiol. 2014 ,3, 374–383. [CrossRef]103. Moral, A.Z.; Mart ínez-Reyes, D.; Quinto, C.; Sanchez, F.; D íaz-Camino, C. Identiﬁcation of small open reading frames (sORFs)associated with heat tolerance in nitrogen-ﬁxing root nodules of Phaseolus vulgaris wild-type and cv BAT93. Aust. J. Crop Sci. 2021 ,15, 28–37. [CrossRef]104. Ni, Z.; Liu, N.; Yu, Y.; Bi, C.; Chen, Q.; Qu, Y. The cotton 70-kDa heat shock protein GhHSP70-26 plays a positive role in thedrought stress response. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2021 ,191, 104628. [CrossRef]105. Feng, X.H.; Zhang, H.X.; Ali, M.; Gai, W.X.; Cheng, G.X.; Yu, Q.H.; Yang, S.B.; Li, X.X.; Gong, Z.H. A small heat shock proteinCaHsp25. 9 positively regulates heat, salt, and drought stress tolerance in pepper ( Capsicum annuum L.).Plant Physiol. Biochem.2019 ,142, 151–162. [CrossRef] [PubMed]106. Ma, X.L.; Wang, Y.J.; Xie, S.L.; Wang, C.; Wang, W. Glycinebetaine application ameliorates negative effects of drought stress intobacco. Russ. J. Plant Physiol. 2007 ,54, 472. [CrossRef]107. Mignolet-Spruyt, L.; Xu, E.; Idänheimo, N.; Hoeberichts, F.A.; Mühlenbock, P .; Brosch é, M.; Van Breusegem, F.; Kangasjärvi, J.Spreading the news: Subcellular and organellar reactive oxygen species production and signalling. J. Exp. Bot. 2016 ,67, 3831–3844.[CrossRef]108. Dietz, K.-J. Thiol-based peroxidases and ascorbate peroxidases: Why plants rely on multiple peroxidase systems in the photosyn-thesizing chloroplast? Mol. Cells 2016 ,39, 20–25. [PubMed]109. Dröse, S.; Brandt, U. Molecular mechanisms of superoxide production by the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Adv. Exp. Med.Biol. 2012 ,748, 145–169.110. Pacher, P .; Beckman, J.S.; Liaudet, L. Nitric Oxide and Peroxynitrite in Health and Disease. Physiol. Rev. 2007 ,87, 315–424.[CrossRef]111. Stadtman, E.R.; Moskovitz, J.; Levine, R.L. Oxidation of methionine residues of proteins: Biological consequences. Antioxid RedoxSignal. 2003 ,5, 577–582. [CrossRef]112. Marnett, L.J. Oxyradicals and DNA damage. Carcinogenesis 2000 ,21, 361–370. [CrossRef]113. Apel, K.H.; Hirt, H. Reactive oxygen species: Metabolism, oxidative stress, and signal transduction. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 2004 ,55, 373–399. [CrossRef]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 24 of 26114. Kaur, K.; Kaur, N.; Gupta, A.K.; Singh, I. Exploration of the antioxidative defense system to characterize chickpea genotypesshowing differential response towards water deﬁcit conditions. Plant Growth Regul. 2013 ,70, 49–60. [CrossRef]115. Wang, W.B.; Kim, Y.H.; Lee, H.S.; Kim, K.Y.; Deng, X.P .; Kwak, S.S. Analysis of antioxidant enzyme activity during germination ofalfalfa under salt and drought stresses. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2009 ,47, 570–577. [CrossRef]116. Ku´ zniak, E.K.; Skłodowska, M. Ascorbate, glutathione and related enzymes in chloroplasts of tomato leaves infected by Botrytiscinerea .Plant Sci. 2001 ,160, 723–731. [CrossRef]117. Sun, Y.; Wang, C.; Chen, H.Y.H.; Ruan, H. Response of Plants to Water Stress: A Meta-Analysis. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 978.[CrossRef] [PubMed]118. Zhang, C.; Chen, J.; Huang, W.; Song, X.; Niu, J. Transcriptomics and metabolomics reveal purine and phenylpropanoidmetabolism response to drought stress in Dendrobium sinense , an endemic orchid species in Hainan Island. Front. Genet. 2021 ,12, 692702. [CrossRef] [PubMed]119. Zhu, J.K. Abiotic stress signaling and responses in plants. Cell2016 ,167, 313–324. [CrossRef]120. Jaiswal, S.; Antala, T.J.; Mandavia, M.K.; Chopra, M.; Jasrotia, R.S.; Tomar, R.S.; Kheni, J.; Angadi, U.B.; Iquebal, M.A.; Golakia,B.A.; et al. Transcriptomic signature of drought response in pearl millet ( Pennisetum glaucum L.) and development of web-genomicresources. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 3382. [CrossRef]121. Egea, I.; Albaladejo, I.; Meco, V .; Morales, B.; Sevilla, A.; Bolarin, M.C.; Flores, F.B. The drought-tolerant Solanum pennellii regulatesleaf water loss and induces genes involved in amino acid and ethylene/jasmonate metabolism under dehydration. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 2791. [CrossRef]122. You, J.; Wang, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Dossa, K.; Li, D.; Zhou, R.; Wang, L.; Zhang, X. Genome-wide identiﬁcation and expression analysesof genes involved in rafﬁnose accumulation in sesame. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 4331. [CrossRef] [PubMed]123. Wang, P .; Yang, C.; Chen, H.; Song, C.; Zhang, X.; Wang, D. Transcriptomic basis for drought-resistance in Brassica napus L.Sci. Rep. 2017 ,7, 40532. [CrossRef]124. Pires, M.V .; J únior, A.A.P .; Medeiros, D.B.; Daloso, D.M.; Pham, P .A.; Barros, K.A.; Engqvist, M.K.; Florian, A.; Krahnert, I.;Maurino, V .G.; et al. The inﬂuence of alternative pathways of respiration that utilize branched-chain amino acids following watershortage in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell Environ. 2016 ,39, 1304–1319. [CrossRef]125. Chmielewska, K.; Rodziewicz, P .; Swarcewicz, B.; Sawikowska, A.; Krajewski, P .; Marczak, L.; Ciesiolka, D.; Kuczynska, A.;Mikolajczak, K.; Ogrodowicz, P .; et al. Analysis of drought-induced proteomic and metabolomic changes in barley ( Hordeumvulgare L.) leaves and roots unravels some aspects of biochemical mechanisms involved in drought tolerance. Front. Plant Sci.2016 ,7, 1108. [CrossRef] [PubMed]126. Bowne, J.B.; Erwin, T.A.; Juttner, J.; Schnurbusch, T.; Langridge, P .; Bacic, A.; Roessner, U. Drought responses of leaf tissues fromwheat cultivars of differing drought tolerance at the metabolite level. Mol. Plant. 2012 ,5, 418–429. [CrossRef] [PubMed]127. Wang, W.; Vinocur, B.; Shoseyov, O.; Altman, A. Role of plant heat-shock proteins and molecular chaperones in the abiotic stressresponse. Trends Plant Sci. 2004 ,9, 244–252. [CrossRef] [PubMed]128. Howell, S.H. Endoplasmic reticulum stress responses in plants. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 2013 ,64, 477–499. [CrossRef]129. Cho, E.K.; Hong, C.B. Over-expression of tobacco NtHSP70-1 contributes to drought-stress tolerance in plants. Plant Cell Rep.2006 ,25, 349–358. [CrossRef]130. Deshmukh, R.K.; Sonah, H.; Belanger, R.R. Plant aquaporins: Genome-wide identiﬁcation, transcriptomics, proteomics,and advanced analytical tools. Front. Plant Sci. 2016 ,7, 1896. [CrossRef]131. Hand, S.C.; Menze, M.A.; Toner, M.; Boswell, L.; Moore, D. LEA proteins during water stress: Not just for plants anymore.Annu. Rev. Physiol. 2011 ,73, 115–134. [CrossRef]132. Prashanth, S.R.; Sadhasivam, V .; Parida, A. Over expression of cytosolic copper/zinc superoxide dismutase from a mangrove plantAvicennia marina inindica rice var Pusa Basmati-1 confers abiotic stress tolerance. Transgenic Res. 2008 ,17, 281–291. [CrossRef]133. Zhang, Z.; Zhang, Q.; Wu, J.; Zheng, X.; Zheng, S.; Sun, X.; Qiu, Q.; Lu, T. Gene knockout study reveals that cytosolic ascorbateperoxidase 2 (OsAPX2) plays a critical role in growth and reproduction in rice under drought, salt and cold stresses. PLoS ONE2013 ,8, e57472.134. Li, S. Redox modulation matters: Emerging functions for glutaredoxins in plant development and stress responses. Plants 2014 ,3,559–582. [CrossRef]135. Guo, Y.; Huang, C.; Xie, Y.; Song, F.; Zhou, X.A. tomato glutaredoxin gene SlGRX1 regulates plant responses to oxidative, droughtand salt stresses. Planta 2010 ,232, 1499–1509. [CrossRef] [PubMed]136. Wu, Q.; Hu, Y.; Sprague, S.A.; Kakeshpour, T.; Park, J.; Nakata, P .A.; Cheng, N.; Hirschi, K.D.; White, F.F.; Park, S. Expressionof a monothiol glutaredoxin, AtGRXS17, in tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) enhances drought tolerance. Biochem. Biophys. Res.Commun. 2017 ,491, 1034–1039. [CrossRef] [PubMed]137. Du, M.; Ding, G.; Cai, Q. The transcriptomic responses of Pinus massoniana to drought stress. Forests 2018 ,9, 326. [CrossRef]138. Dong, B.; Wu, B.; Hong, W.; Li, X.; Li, Z.; Xue, L.; Huang, Y. Transcriptome analysis of the tea oil camellia ( Camellia oleifera ) revealscandidate drought stress genes. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0181835.139. Zhang, Q.; Liu, H.; Wu, X.; Wang, W. Identiﬁcation of drought tolerant mechanisms in a drought-tolerant maize mutant based onphysiological, biochemical and transcriptomic analyses. BMC Plant Biol. 2020 ,20, 315. [CrossRef]140. Jiang, C.; Li, X.; Zou, J.; Ren, J.; Jin, C.; Zhang, H.; Yu, H.; Jin, H. Comparative transcriptome analysis of genes involved in thedrought stress response of two peanut ( Arachis hypogaea L.) varieties. BMC Plant Biol. 2021 ,21, 64. [CrossRef]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 25 of 26141. Tahmasebi, A.; Niazi, A. Comparison of Transcriptional Response of C 3and C 4Plants to Drought Stress Using Meta-Analysisand Systems Biology Approach. Front. Plant Sci. 2021 ,12, 668736. [CrossRef]142. Heijden, M.G.A.V .D.; Bardgett, R.D.; Straalen, N.M.V . The unseen majority: Soil microbes as drivers of plant diversity andproductivity in terrestrial ecosystems. Ecol. Lett. 2008 ,11, 296–310. [CrossRef] [PubMed]143. Cavicchioli, R.; William, J.R.; Timmis, K.N.; Azam, F.; Bakken, L.R.; Baylis, M.; Behrenfeld, M.J.; Boetius, A.; Boyd, P .W.; Classen,A.T.; et al. Scientists’ warning to humanity: Microorganisms and climate change. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2019 ,17, 569–586. [CrossRef]144. Ullah, A.; Akbar, A.; Luo, Q.; Khan, A.H.; Manghwar, H.; Shaban, M.; Yang, X. Microbiome Diversity in Cotton RhizosphereUnder Normal and Drought Conditions. Microb. Ecol. 2019 ,77, 429–439. [CrossRef]145. Nannipieri, P .; Ascher, J.; Ceccherini, M.T.; Landi, L.; Pietramellara, G.; Renella, G.; Valori, F. Microbial diversity and microbialactivity in the rhizosphere. Cienc. Suelo 2007 ,25, 89–97.146. Preece, C.; Peñuelas, J. Rhizodeposition under drought and consequences for soil communities and ecosystem resilience. Plant Soil2016 ,409, 1–17. [CrossRef]147. Yang, Z.; Zhou, B.; Chen, Q.; Ge, X.; Shi, Y. Effects of drought on root architecture and non-structural carbohydrate of Cunning-hamia lanceolata. Acta Ecol. Sin. 2018 ,38, 6729–6740.148. Dai, L.; Zhang, G.; Yu, Z.; Ding, H.; Xu, Y.; Zhang, Z. Effect of drought stress and developmental stages on microbial communitystructure and diversity in peanut rhizosphere soil. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 2265. [CrossRef] [PubMed]149. Kumar, A.; Singh, S.; Gaurav, A.K.; Srivastava, S.; Verma, J.P . Plant growth-promoting bacteria: Biological tools for the mitigationof salinity stress in plants. Front. Microbiol. 2020 ,11, 1216. [CrossRef]150. Khadka, R.B.; Uphoff, N. Effects of Trichoderma seedling treatment with system of rice intensiﬁcation management and withconventional management of transplanted rice. PeerJ 2019 ,7, 5877. [CrossRef]151. Arun, K.D.; Sabarinathan, K.G.; Gomathy, M.; Kannan, R.; Balachandar, D. Mitigation of drought stress in rice crop with plantgrowth-promoting abiotic stress-tolerant rice phyllosphere bacteria. J. Basic Microbiol. 2020 ,60, 768–786. [CrossRef]152. Alamgir, A.N.M. Phytoconstituents-Active and Inert Constituents, Metabolic Pathways, Chemistry and Application of Phytocon-stituents, Primary Metabolic Products, and Bioactive Compounds of Primary Metabolic Origin. In Therapeutic Use of Medicinal Plantsand Their Extracts ; Rainsford, K.D., Ed.; Progress in Drug Research; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2018; V olume 74, pp. 25–164.153. Shukla, N.; Awasthi, R.P .; Rawat, L.; Kumar, J. Biochemical and physiological responses of rice ( Oryza sativa L.) as inﬂuenced byTrichoderma harzianum under drought stress. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2012 ,54, 78–88. [CrossRef]154. Etesami, H.; Maheshwari, D.K. Use of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPRs) with multiple plant growth promotingtraits in stress agriculture: Action mechanisms and future prospects. Ecotoxicol. Environ. Saf. 2018 ,156, 225–246. [CrossRef]155. Egamberdieva, D.; Reckling, M.; Wirth, S. Biochar-based Bradyrhizobium inoculum improves growth of lupin ( Lupinus angustifoliusL.) under drought stress. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 2017 ,78, 38–42. [CrossRef]156. Ngumbi, E.; Kloepper, J. Bacterial-mediated drought tolerance: Current and future prospects. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2016 ,105, 109–125.[CrossRef]157. Enebe, M.C.; Babalola, O.O. The inﬂuence of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria in plant tolerance to abiotic stress: A survivalstrategy. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,102, 7821–7835. [CrossRef]158. Vejan, P .; Abdullah, R.; Khadiran, T.; Ismail, S.; Boyce, A.N. Role of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria in agriculturalsustainability-a review. Molecules 2016 ,21, 573. [CrossRef] [PubMed]159. Chandra, D.; Srivastava, R.; Gupta, V .V .S.R.; Franco, C.M.M.; Sharma, A.K. Evaluation of ACC-deaminase-producing rhizobacteriato alleviate water-stress impacts in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) plants. Can. J. Microbiol. 2019 ,65, 387–403. [CrossRef]160. Zafar-Ul-Hye, M.; Danish, S.; Abbas, M.; Ahmad, M.; Munir, T.M. ACC deaminase producing PGPR Bacillus amyloliquefaciens andAgrobacterium fabrum along with biochar improve wheat productivity under drought stress. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 343. [CrossRef]161. Naseem, H.; Ahsan, M.; Shahid, M.A.; Khan, N. Exopolysaccharides producing rhizobacteria and their role in plant growth anddrought tolerance. J. Basic Microbiol. 2018 ,58, 1009–1022. [CrossRef]162. Shariﬁ, R.; Ryu, C.M. Revisiting bacterial volatile-mediated plant growth promotion: Lessons from the past and objectives for thefuture. Ann. Bot. 2018 ,122, 349–358. [CrossRef]163. El-Daim, I.A.A.; Bejai, S.; Meijer, J. Bacillus velezensis 5113 induced metabolic and molecular reprogramming during abiotic stresstolerance in wheat. Sci. Rep. 2019 ,9, 16282. [CrossRef]164. Goswami, M.; Deka, S. Plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria- alleviators of abiotic stresses in soil: A review. Pedosphere 2020 ,30,40–61. [CrossRef]165. Bano, Q.; Ilyas, N.; Bano, A.; Zafar, N.; Akram, A.; Hassan, F. Effect of Azospirillum inoculation on maize ( Zea mays L.) underdrought stress. Pak J. Bot. 2013 ,45, 13–20.166. Vardharajula, S.; Zulﬁkar Ali, S.; Grover, M.; Reddy, G.; Bandi, V . Drought-tolerant plant growth promoting Bacillus spp.: Effecton growth, osmolytes, and antioxidant status of maize under drought stress. J. Plant Int. 2011 ,6, 1–14.167. Sandhya, V .; Ali, S.K.Z.; Minakshi, G.; Reddy, G.; Venkateswarlu, B. Alleviation of drought stress effects in sunﬂower seedlings bythe exopolysaccharides producing Pseudomonas putida strain GAP-P45. Biol. Fertil. Soils. 2009 ,46, 17–26. [CrossRef]168. Lim, J.H.; Kim, S.D. Induction of drought stress resistance by multi-functional PGPR Bacillus licheniformis K11 in pepper. PlantPathol. J. 2013 ,29, 201–208. [CrossRef] [PubMed]169. Figueiredo, M.V .; Burity, H.A.; Mart ínez, C.R.; Chanway, C.P . Alleviation of drought stress in the common bean ( Phaseolus vulgarisL.) by co-inoculation with Paenibacillus polymyxa and Rhizobium tropici .Appl. Soil Ecol. 2008 ,40, 182–188. [CrossRef]Agronomy 2022 ,12, 189 26 of 26170. Staudinger, C.; Mehmeti-Tershani, V .; Gil-Quintana, E.; Gonzalez, E.M.; Hofhansl, F.; Bachmann, G.; Wienkoop, S. Evidence for arhizobia-induced drought stress response strategy in Medicago truncatula .J. Proteom. 2016 ,136, 202–213. [CrossRef]171. Kasim, W.A.; Osman, M.E.; Omar, M.N.; Abd El-Daim, I.A.; Bejai, S.; Meijer, J. Control of drought stress in wheat usingplant-growth-promoting bacteria. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2013 ,32, 122–130. [CrossRef]172. Ma, Y.; Rajkumar, M.; Zhang, C.; Freitas, H. Inoculation of Brassica oxyrrhina with plant growth promoting bacteria for theimprovement of heavy metal phytoremediation under drought conditions. J. Hazard. Mater. 2014 ,320, 36–44. [CrossRef][PubMed]173. Tiwari, S.; Lata, C.; Chauhan, P .S.; Nautiyal, C.S. Pseudomonas putida attunes morphophysiological, biochemical and molecularresponses in Cicer arietinum L. during drought stress and recovery. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2016 ,99, 108–117. [CrossRef]174. Sherameti, I.; Tripathi, S.; Varma, A.; Oelmuller, R. The root-colonizing endophyte Pirifomospora indica confers drought tolerance inArabidopsis by stimulating the expression of drought stress-related genes in leaves. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2008 ,21, 799–807.[CrossRef]175. Hussain, M.B.; Zahir, Z.A.; Asghar, H.N.; Asgher, M. Can catalase and exopolysaccharides producing rhizobia ameliorate droughtstress in wheat? Int. J. Agric. Biol. 2014 ,16, 3–13.176. Behrooz, A.; Vahdati, K.; Rejali, F.; Lotﬁ, M.; Sarikhani, S.; Leslie, C. Arbuscular mycorrhiza and plant growth-promoting bacteriaalleviate drought stress in walnut. HortScience 2019 ,54, 1087–1092. [CrossRef]177. Morsy, M.; Cleckler, B.; Armuelles-Millican, H. Fungal endophytes promote tomato growth and enhance drought and salttolerance. Plants 2020 ,9, 877. [CrossRef] [PubMed]178. Liao, X.; Chen, J.; Guan, R.; Liu, J.; Sun, Q. Two arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi alleviates drought stress and improves plant growthinCinnamomum migao seedlings. Mycobiology 2021 ,49, 396–405. [CrossRef]179. Azad, K.; Kaminskyj, S.A. fungal endophyte strategy for mitigating the effect of salt and drought stress on plant growth. Symbiosis2016 ,68, 73–78. [CrossRef]180. Budak, H.; Kantar, M.; Yucebilgili Kurtoglu, K. Drought tolerance in modern and wild wheat. Sci. World. J. 2013 ,4, 66–75.[CrossRef] [PubMed]181. Oh, S.J.; Kim, Y.S.; Kwon, C.W.; Park, H.K.; Jeong, J.S.; Kim, J.K. Overexpression of the transcription factor AP37 in rice improvesgrain yield under drought conditions. Plant Physiol. 2013 ,150, 1368–1379. [CrossRef] [PubMed]182. Valliyodan, B.; Nguyen, H.T. Understanding regulatory networks and engineering for enhanced drought tolerance in plants.Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 2006 ,9, 189–195.183. Trujillo, L.E.; Sotolongo, M.; Menendez, C.; Ochogavia, M.E.; Coll, Y.; Hernandez, I.; Hernandez, L. SodERF3, a novel sugarcaneethylene responsive factor (ERF), enhances salt and drought tolerance when over expressed in tobacco plants. Plant Cell Physiol.2008 ,49, 512–525. [CrossRef] [PubMed]