ReviewThe microbiota of the grapevine holobiont: A key component of planthealthPauline Bettenfelda,b,1, Jasmine Cadena i Canalsa,1, Lucile Jacquensa, Olivier Fernandezb,Florence Fontaineb, Evert van Schaika, Pierre-Emmanuel Courtya,2,⇑, Sophie Trouvelota,2aAgroécologie, AgroSup Dijon, CNRS, Université de Bourgogne, INRAE, Université de Bourgogne Franche-Comté, Dijon, FrancebUniversité de Reims Champagne-Ardenne, Unité Résistance Induite et Bioprotection des Plantes EA 4707 USC INRAE 1488, SFR Condorcet FR CNRS 3417, Rei ms, Francehighlights/C15Grapevine interacts differentmicrobiota living around and withinits tissues/C15Addition of microbial genes to plantgenome gives supplementaryfunctions to the holobiont/C15The composition of grapevinemicrobiota varies according toendogenous and exogenous factors/C15Microbiota variations can lead toperturbations of grapevinemetabolism/C15The link between symptomemergence of dieback and microbialimbalance is currently studiedgraphical abstractarticle infoArticle history:Received 3 October 2021Revised 8 December 2021Accepted 17 December 2021Available online 22 December 2021Keywords:GrapevineMicrobiotaHolobiontDeclineMicrobial balanceabstractBackground: Grapevine is a woody, perennial plant of high economic importance worldwide. Like otherplants, it lives in close association with large numbers of microorganisms. Bacteria, fungi and viruses arestructured in communities, and each individual can be beneﬁcial, neutral or harmful to the plant. In thissense, microorganisms can interact with each other and regulate plant functions (including immunity)and even provide new ones. Thus, the grapevine associated with its microbial communities constitutesa supra-organism, also called a holobiont, whose functioning is linked to established plant-microorganism interactions.Aim of review: The overall health of the plant may be conditioned by the diversity and structure of micro-bial communities. Consequently, an optimal microbial composition will consist of a microbial balanceallowing the plant to be healthy. Conversely, an imbalance of microbial populations could lead to (orbe generated by) a decline of the plant. The microbiome is an active component of the host also respon-sive to biotic and abiotic changes; in that respect, a better understanding of the most important drivers ofthe composition of plant microbiomes is needed.Key scientiﬁc concepts of review: This article presents the current state of the art about the grapevinemicrobiota and its composition according to the plant compartments and the inﬂuencing factors. We alsohttps://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2021.12.0082090-1232/ /C2112022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Cairo University.This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).Peer review under responsibility of Cairo University.⇑Corresponding author.E-mail address: pierre-emmanuel.courty@inrae.fr (P.-E. Courty).1Co-ﬁrst authors.2Co-last authors.Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–15Contents lists available at ScienceDirectJournal of Advanced Researchjournal homepag e: www.elsevier.c om/locate/jarefocus on situations of imbalance, in particular during plant disease or decline. Finally, we discuss the pos-sible interest of microbial engineering in an agrosystem such as viticulture./C2112022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Cairo University. This is an open access articleunder the CC BY-NC-ND license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/ ).I. IntroductionGrapevine is a perennial plant of global economic importance:the International Organization of Vine and Wine estimated that7.4 million hectares were planted with vineyards worldwide in2018 (including 3.7 in Europe and 2.2 in Asia, the two most impor-tant surfaces) and produced 77.8 million tons of grapes. The diver-sity of technical routes ( e.g.,pruning, fertilization) and associatedsoils and climates allow the production of a wide variety of wines(263 million hectoliters in 2019). The organoleptic characteristicsof wines depend on different factors such as the localization ofthe vineyard, the winemaking process or the microbial ﬂora asso-ciated with grapes and the winery. These concepts are at the originof the notion of ‘‘terroir”, which encompass the biotic and abioticparameters of a given region to explain the production of a winewith unique characteristics [1–3] .The hologenome theory of evolution emerged in 2008. It isbased on four axioms: (1) all animals and plants establish symbi-otic relationships with microorganisms, (2) symbiotic microorgan-isms are transmitted across generations, (3) the host-symbiontassociation affects the ﬁtness of the holobiont within its environ-ment, (4) variations in the hologenome come from changes inthe host or the microbiota genomes; under environmental stress,the symbiotic microbial community can change rapidly [4,5] .Therefore, the plant microbiota gathers all eukaryotic (fungal, pro-tozoan, chromistan) and prokaryotic (bacterial, archaeal) microor-ganisms as well as viruses living in association with them.Most of the currently published studies on grapevine micro-biota mainly target fungal and/or bacterial communities. Themicrobiota is found in a latent or active state in each organ, fromthe roots to the aerial parts, in the form of endophytes ( i.e.,coloniz-ing internal tissues) or epiphytes ( i.e.,on the surface of tissues, incontact with the environment in the rhizosphere, lignosphere,caulosphere, phyllosphere, anthosphere or carposphere) [6,7] .The endophytic and epiphytic bacterial and fungal communitiesassociated with the different grapevine organs are inﬂuenced bythe taxonomic composition of the soil surrounding roots, whichis the main reservoir of microorganisms (endophytic bacteria[8–14] and fungi [15–19] ). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF)constitute a separate category among soil microbes. They form amutually beneﬁcial symbiosis with grapevine roots calledmycorrhiza [20]. AMF, together with certain endophytic bacteria,promote grapevine growth and resistance to biotic or abiotic stres-ses[21,22] .Plant-fungus and plant-bacterium interactions are triggered bythe ability of microorganisms to ﬁx themselves on plant tissuesand live within them. This led to the ideas of the microbiome asthe ‘‘set of genes brought by microbes forming the microbiotawithin a holobiont” [23] and the microbiota as a ‘‘second plant gen-ome”, a supplementary source of genes and functions, or a fullcomponent of plant defense [6,24,25] .Considering the holobiont as a functional whole opens up newﬁelds of investigation, particularly in terms of biotechnologicalapplications [23,26] . While metagenomic methods are used toidentify the present microbial genes and associated functions, tran-scriptomic, proteomic and metabolomic methods are used to studythe spatio-temporal and functional dynamics of the grapevineholobiont [24]. Each of these -omics methods is applied individu-ally in plant research, including research on the grapevine, buttheir combination is still rare.II. Origin, structure and composition of the plant microbiotaII.1. Origin of the plant microbial communityII.1.1. Getting into the plantFinding microbial species both present outside and inside thedifferent plant compartments suggests that microbes ﬁnd entrypoints in the plant and then reach endospheric tissues. The rootsystem gathers different gateways: intercellular junctions in theepidermis where root hairs or lateral roots emerge or wounds onthe rhizoplane are widely used by soil microorganisms. Once theplant innate immunity is overcome [27], they colonize the root cor-tex or the vascular system to spread within the host. It appears thatthe following colonization viagrapevine roots [28], 28 % of rhizo-sphere microorganisms can colonize the root endosphere, and 4% can reach the aerial parts [11,29] .Roots exude a various range of compounds differing in qualityand quantity among plant species and developmental cycles. Thisrhizodeposition leads to an active selection of soil microbes, result-ing in different bacterial and fungal communities living nearby inthe surrounding soil or within plant roots [30,31] . Different gate-ways have also been described in aerial parts, such as leaf stomata,trichomes, surface wounds or hydathodes [32,33] . Piercing andsucking insects ( e.g., leafhoppers, wasps) can also inject microor-ganisms directly into the plant vascular system [34,35] .II.1.2. Mechanisms and origins of microbiota dispersalThe microbiota is dispersed from grapevine to grapevine [36,37]or the surrounding ﬂora and fauna [38] and the environmentthrough different mechanisms: anemochory, zoochory, hydrochoryand anthropochory. As agrosystems, vineyards are strongly modi-ﬁed by humans (anthropization), who can also be a source ofmicroorganisms [39].The soil is now often seen as a bacterial reservoir. It has beenobserved that the microbial communities of leaves, grapes andﬂowers share many more taxa with the soil than among them[29,40] . 28 % of the endophytes found in the biocompartments theystudied (bulk soil, rhizosphere, roots, cordons, canes and sap) wereof soil/rhizosphere origin [28]. Some microorganisms in the aerialparts can come from the soil through tillage, which generates dustthat may deposit on leaves, berries, and trunks [41]. Indeed, as aperennial part, the trunk is also a microbial reservoir for annualparts (shoots, leaves, grapes; [42]).II.2. Different microbiota within the plantThe studies that covered the microbiota in the soil – roots – aer-ial parts continuum found pronounced microbiota differencesbetween belowground and aboveground compartments ( seeTable 1 andFig. 1 ). Indeed, it seems that the bacterial speciﬁc rich-ness and diversity vary following a decreasing gradient from thesoil to the aerial parts [41,43,44] . In addition, fungal speciﬁc rich-ness and diversity appear to decrease from the bulk soil to theendorhizosphere, with a sharp decrease from the surrounding soilto the endorhizosphere; this suggests a signiﬁcant limitation ofroot colonization by fungi [45].These differences seem more evident when studying epiphytes;while endophytes, which move around the whole plant throughthe sap, appeared to be more mixed [28]. Moreover, functionalP. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–152Table 1Bacterial and fungal microbiota associated with grapevine compartments.Fig. 1. Factors known to affect the composition and the structure of grapevine microbiota.P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–153differences between the microbiota from aerial or underground tis-sues were found [29]. The environmental conditions of the com-partments strongly differ in terms of temperature, moisture, lightincidence or even human contact. In consequence, it is no surprisethat the diversity and structure of microbial communities of grape-vine should be compartment dependent and that the diversityfound in aerial parts is lower as opposed to the underground com-partments [29,38,46–48] .II.2.1. Belowground compartments: Fine roots and rhizosphereThe sharpest microbial differences are found between the out-side and the inside of the roots, conﬁrming the selection by theplant of only certain strains that will be able to cross the rhizodermand live inside the plant (for bacteria: [29,49] ; for fungi: [28,45] ).However, the signiﬁcant discrepancies among the different studiesfor certain bacterial taxa ( e.g.,Chloroﬂexi and Gemmatimonadetes )show that other factors than root selection act on relative bacteriaabundances ( [28,29,50] ; see Fig. 1 for other hypotheses consid-ered). Rhizospheric soil is enriched in Ascomycota, compared toendosphere roots that are richer in Basidiomycota [45]. This differ-ence is found at the trophic level: saprotrophs are relatively moreabundant in the soil than in the rhizosphere or endorhizosphere,but pathotrophs and symbiotrophs are not.However, we have noted that the primers used to amplify fun-gal sequences target different types of strains (especially mycor-rhizal or non-mycorrhizal ones). Consequently, most of thestudies devoted to the total fungal diversity of vineyard soilsexclude mycorrhizal fungi to only focus on non-mycorrhizal ones,and vice versa [51–56] . This choice can result in a taxa bias in somestudies.II.2.2. Aboveground compartments: Woody parts, phyllosphere,anthosphere, carposphere and spermosphereIf we concentrate on the aerial organs, we can differentiate twotypes of compartments: the annual structures (shoots, leaves,ﬂowers and berries) are differentiated over a vegetative cycle,whereas the perennial structures (woody parts: trunk, spurs andcanes) persist year after year, and are reserve structures (especiallyfor sugars and nitrogen) and a microbiota reservoir as explainedbefore. Woody compartments are not completely homogenous, inparticular, because of the coexistence of living and dead tissues.We can assume that the microbiota associated with the perennialwoody parts is subject to less variation than the microbiota ofother aerial parts because of its permanence. It is more diversebecause more it is stable over time.The bacterial microbiota of epiphytic bark is described as beingmore complex than it is on leaves and grapes [42]. The majority ofgrapevines planted in European vineyards are grafted, i.e.,formedfrom a scion (a grapevine variety selected for its wine-makingqualities) associated with a rootstock (selected according to itsinteractions with the soil and its resistance to stresses). In graftedplants, bacterial species seem to be fairly regularly distributedaccording to the woody area and despite diversity, gradients men-tioned later, whereas fungal species appear to be more speciﬁc tothe part of the sampled wood [38].Among the aboveground vegetative compartments, the phyllo-sphere is the most studied vegetative compartment, probablyowing to its accessibility. The upper and lower surfaces of leavesare subjected to different thermal and water constraints, leadingto variations in the abundance and diversity of bacteria (moremicroorganisms in the upper surface than in the lower one, despitebeing exposed to greater UV radiations and temperature and mois-ture variations [57]).Finally, among the anthosphere, carposphere and spermo-sphere, there is no doubt that the berry microbiota has been themost studied. Generally, the latter is rarely considered for its linkwith plant health but more for its effect in wine-making ( [58–60]for example). Nevertheless, ﬂower and seeds microbiota have alsobeen the focus of other works. Namely, Compantet al. exploredendophytes of reproductive organs and found that even the pipswere colonized by bacteria (although less than other compart-ments) [11]. This could also suggest a possible transmission ofmicrobiota between the plant and its descendants ( i.e.zygotes)[61].II.3. Differences and similarities among compartments lead to coremicrobiotaDespite the microbial selection leading to taxonomic differ-ences between compartments [62], the existence of a continuumof species from the underground parts to the aerial parts is at theorigin of the concept of core microbiota. The core microbiota canbe understood as a set of species found within a single individualin all the studied compartments, but also as a set of species foundin a given compartment on different individuals, whatever theirgenotype, age, location, and the climate or edaphic properties[29,63] . The 10 dominant bacterial phyla in the soil, leaves andgrapes are Actinomycetes, Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes,Gemmatimonadetes, Acidobacteria, Nitrospirae, Chloroﬂexi, Verru-comicrobia and Planctomycetes (e.g.[13,41,43,64] ). This core micro-biome can also be demonstrated on a fungal scale, for examplewith the predominance of Ascomycota genus Cadophora, Cladospo-rium, Penicillium and Alternaria in the wood of different rootstocksat different developmental stages [65]. Interestingly, the existenceof a core microbiome of grapevine ( Vitis vinifera ) independent ofthe region, the climate and the sampling method was demon-strated [29]. These authors analyzed grapes from New York andBordeaux as well as grape juice from California and identiﬁed sev-eral OTUs present in more than 80 % of the samples. In anotherstudy, a core mycobiota whose majority composition is indepen-dent of the sampled site or season and the grapevine organ consid-ered was also highlighted in a study in Hungary ( [66], see Fig. 2 ).III. Factors inﬂuencing the microbiota in healthy grapevinesThe fact that microorganisms are in permanent interaction witheach other and with the plant, but also that they can pass from alatent to an active state (whether pathogenic, beneﬁcial or neutral),raises the question of the factors inﬂuencing the microbial status ofgrapevine at a given time. These factors can be termed endogenous(e.g., plant genotype, plant age) or exogenous ( e.g., climatic, geo-graphic parameters, cultivation practices) [6,67] (see Fig. 1 ).III.1. Genetic diversity of the grapevinePlant genetic diversity is one of the intrinsic factors inﬂuencingthe microbiota, more speciﬁcally in grapevine both at the scion androotstock level [68,69] . This can be seen in different studies carriedout on the rhizosphere with the same variety grafted onto differentrootstocks [28,48,62,69–71] and with different cultivars graftedonto the same rootstock [15].Rootstock genotypes and their produced rhizodeposition aremajor drivers of microbial selection and structure in the rhizo-sphere [72]. Therefore, it came as no surprise that the host geneticcontrol of the microorganisms was more evident in a mature 25-year-old vineyard than in a younger, 7-year-old one [52]. Addition-ally, genetics plays a crucial role in the innate immune system - anatural barrier microorganisms encounter when establishing arelationship with host plants ( e.g.,[73,74] . Therefore, the fact thatcertain rootstocks are resistant or confer resistance to certainpathogens is understandable ( e.g.,[75–77] ). As regards the aerialP. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–154parts, the inﬂuence of genetics seems to be more complex. Indeed,Singh et al. explored the microbial diversity of the phyllosphereand the carposphere of 279 grapevine varieties cultivated in twoexperimental vineyards around Montpellier (France). They dividedthe cultivars into three genetic pools and found that genotype hadan impact on microbial composition at a particular geographiclocation [78]. Nevertheless, when they compared ﬁve commer-cially important varieties sampled in three different climaticregions, they concluded that the terroir effect was more importantthan the genotype effect [46]. Moreover, they observed that thevariety-dependent differences in microbiota were greater on theberries than on the leaves. Interestingly, the taxa that best con-tribute to differentiate cultivars are fermentation microorganisms,which could participate in the typicity of grape variety [40,58] .Finally, differences in the composition of the microbial communi-ties of leaf samples from nine grapevine varieties cultivated inthe same plot have been evidenced [79]. Such results furtherproved that variety could be an important factor affecting themicrobial community.III.2. Intra-vineyard diversityToday, most vineyards are planted with identical individuals:clonal selection is very common in viticulture and vegetative prop-agation is the usual practice. Therefore, if we do not consider epi-genetics, it is quite easy to evaluate certain factors such as plantage and the phenological stage within a population of geneticallyidentical individuals.III.2.1. The ageSome studies are focused on vineyard age and compare individ-ual grapevines cultivated in the same plot as regards bacterialendophytes [70], wood fungal pathogens [80], stem fungi [81], rhi-zosphere soil bacteria [82], or AMF [56]. A positive correlationbetween grapevine age and the speciﬁc diversity of fungal endo-phytes has been demonstrated [81]. However, the ‘‘plant age” fac-tor may not always be most determining in microbiota variation(e.g., the rhizosphere microbiota [54]).III.2.2. The phenological stageNumerous studies have characterized the microbiota in differ-ent compartments of grapevine throughout the season, andaccording to its phenological stages. The ‘‘season” or ‘‘developmen-tal” variables do not seem to inﬂuence the associated microbiotaover the year ( e.g., comparison of bacterial microbiota in bulkand rhizosphere soil at the ﬂowering and early fruit developmentstages [83], AMF diversity in the roots [56], endophytic fungalmicrobiota in aerial tissues [66]). Other studies reveal that themicrobiota is unstable over a full growing season (different abun-dances of wood [65] or soil fungal communities [71,84] , high struc-turing of the leaf microbiota during the vegetative cycle [19,37,85] ,variations of the culturable bacterial endophyte community [8]).III.2.3. The plot locationIt has also been shown that the microbiota associated with thevery same plants can also vary [8,52] or not [86] over successiveyears, highlighting the impact of seasonality or of variable agro-nomic practices from one year to another. Finally, interestinglyenough, intra-plot variability can be greater than inter-plot differ-ences [87]. Even if the main determinants of the variationsobserved over successive years are sometimes discussed, theseresults may acknowledge the importance of speciﬁc interactionsbetween microorganisms, host plant and rhizospheric functioning,which can change through sampling seasons.III.3. Use of phytosanitary inputsThe microbiota composition is sensitive to chemical treatments,as shown by studies comparing vineyards under conventional, sus-tainable or biodynamic agriculture. The sensitivity of the soilmicrobiota is dependent on the method [88–90] : the vineyardscultivated under organic farming show greater speciﬁc fungalFig. 2. Above-ground parts of white grapevine Vitis vinifera cv. Furmint share core members of the fungal microbiome. Four different compartments (young leaf, old leaf,grape and rachis) have been sampled in 6 different vineyards (STT, BET, NEG, URA, KIR, HAN) in Hungary, at three different developmental stages (sprin g, summer, autumn)within the same growing year. The fungal endophytic microbiome is dominated by Aureobasidium pullulans, Cladosporium spp. and Alternaria alternata at every site, seasonand plant organ, according to Knapp et al., 2021 [66].P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–155and bacterial richness and diversity [71,87,91] . It is likely that theproducts applied for fertilization, weeding and phytopathogencontrol directly and indirectly inﬂuence microbial communities[53,92] . On the other hand, differences in soil microbial communi-ties have been mainly explained by the absence or presence ofcover plants, regardless of how they were removed (soil cultivationor herbicide treatment) [93].Besides the soil microbiota, epiphytic [85] and endophytic[94,95] bacterial or fungal communities can also be affected bypest management [41,60,87] . When nitrogen and sulfur are artiﬁ-cially added to soils over a long period, the microbial diversityassociated with the roots is modiﬁed, which means that anthro-pogenic activities ( e.g.fertilization) can modify the rhizospheremicrobiota [30,96,97] . However, the changes in microbial commu-nities in response to chemical treatments and technical itinerariesappear to be transient over time [98]. Overall, the results are con-troversial. Furthermore, it is extremely difﬁcult to draw generalconclusions about this point, as two plots under the same practice(conventional, organic, or biodynamic) can receive completely dif-ferent treatments.III.4. Soil characteristics, climate and geographyPhytosanitary products have an impact on the composition ofthe soil microbiota, which is the main reservoir of the aerial micro-biota. In that case, we can hypothesize that the soil compositionhas a major impact on the microbiota composition of the wholegrapevine [29,92,99] . Grapevine is a worldwide crop establishedin diverse pedoclimatic conditions (soil characteristics like grainsize, moisture, salinity, nutritional qualities; locations at differentaltitudes, air temperatures, under different irradiance levels).Vine-growing regions have their own ‘‘terroirs”, which affect thetaste of wine by giving it unique organoleptic properties. The def-inition of terroir also involves the characterization of the associ-ated microorganisms, because the yeasts naturally present ongrapes in the vineyard, in the winery environment or inoculatedbefore the fermentation process signiﬁcantly impact the ﬁnal char-acteristics of wines. The grape microbiota varies depending onmicroclimate variations as well as available nutritional resources[40,42,58,60] . Correlations between rainfall, temperature and thephyllosphere microbiota have been established [98].The sensitiveness of the microbiota to geographic factors differsamong compartments: we can assume that the impact of the ter-roir is greater on the microbiota of perennial organs than on themicrobiotas of leaves or berries [42]. The identiﬁcation of distinctsoil microbial communities in relation to the vineyard locationsupports the idea that soil microbial communities are decisive inthe link between edaphic properties and terroir [92,100,101] . Thestructure of soil microbial communities can be strongly deter-mined by water stress [102] or altitude [54,86] . This can beexplained by variations in air temperature, but also soil character-istics (moisture, clay content and mineral elements). Thus, thephysicochemical gradient has a strong impact on the soil micro-biota [103] . Likewise, the soil pH, organic carbon content or evenphosphorus content have a signiﬁcant impact on fungal and bacte-rial communities [104] . A few studies are less assertive as to theimportance of the soil chemical characteristics [88] or geographiclocation on microbial communities, with other factors appearingto be more important ( e.g., a stronger compartment effect [45]).Ranking the factors that inﬂuence the composition of the micro-biota seems to be difﬁcult.The microbial diversities of plants of different ages or varietiescombined with conventional or organic farming have been com-pared with diverse outcomes. The most important differencescan be mainly explained by pest management (before the impactof the cultivar) [94,95] , or by the concerned tissue (before theimpact of the cultivar) [46]. Soil management can affect the rhizo-sphere microbiota more strongly than plant age does [54]. Themain driver of the microbial community composition can also bethe organ, with edaphic factors explaining the community struc-ture within organs [29].The degree of inﬂuence of the various factors ( e.g., vineyard age,type of soil management, rootstock) also appears to be variabledepending on the microbes concerned: the impact of soil manage-ment and vineyard age on the rhizosphere microbiota has beenfound greater on bacteria than on fungi [89]. Unfortunately, mostof the comparative studies have tested several factors simultane-ously, which complicates the task of conﬁdently attributingcause-effect relationships.IV. Plant ﬁtness depends on microbiotaAmong the microorganisms found in grapevine tissues, someare beneﬁcial, others are pathogenic, and others are neutral, rela-tive to their interactions within the host. Also, depending on theirstatus ( i.e.beneﬁcial vsdetrimental) in the plant and the fact thatthey colonize or not certain tissues/compartments, the repercus-sions generated on the plant could be diverse. Considering theholobiont concept described above, we can suppose that planthealth is intimately linked to the interactions between the plantand its microbiota, as it is in the animal kingdom [105] . In otherwords, the holobiont balance is likely to affect plant ﬁtness [23,30] .IV.1. Beneﬁcial and detrimental microorganismsIV.1.1. Services provided by beneﬁcial microbiotaThe identiﬁcation of beneﬁcial properties has led to the emer-gence of bioprotection strategies based on strains with bio-fertilization (the ability to make mineral nutrients bioavailable tothe grapevine), biostimulation (the ability to synthesize agrowth-promoting compound) or biocontrol properties (the abilityto eliminate pathogens by predation, suppression of virulence fac-tors or niche competition [106] ). Among the microbial groupsmentioned above, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) play such a positive role[107,108] .IV.1.1.1. Bio-fertilization. Some PGPB can solubilize forms of phos-phorus that cannot be assimilated by the grapevine by transform-ing organic phosphorus into soluble ionic phosphate [109] . Thisbacteria type has been found in several compartments of grape-vine: species of Pseudomonas, Enterobacter, Arthrobacter and Bacil-lusin the rhizosphere [110,111] ,Bacillus and Pantoea in branches[112] ,Pantoea in the endocaulosphere [70]. AMF associated withroots, greatly increase the exploitation of the soil and supply addi-tional water and nutrients [22]. This colonization results in a betterﬁtness of the plant, whose aerial and root biomass values increase[21,113,114] . The increased water uptake capacities and the for-mation of soil micro-aggregates near the roots that promote waterretention enhance the water stress tolerance of mycorrhizal grape-vines. Mycorrhizal grapevines also better tolerate iron deﬁciency,the presence of heavy metals, or soil salinity [22,108] .IV.1.1.2. Biostimulation. Other PGPB can synthesize phytohormonesthat promote plant growth and help plants face stresses. For exam-ple,Bacillus licheniformis and Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens produceabscisic acid and limit water stress on the roots of in vitro -grownplantlets [115,116] .IV.1.1.3. Biocontrol. The rhizosphere bacteria and endospherebacteria of shoots and branches, like Achromobacter xylosoxidans,P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–156Bacillus subtilis orPseudomonas ﬂuorescens , can produce sidero-phores that limit iron availability and deprive other (pathogenic)microorganisms of it [70,110,112] . Some bacteria also degrade cer-tain virulence factors produced by phytopathogens ( e.g.,oxalic acidproduced by Botrytis cinerea on leaves [117] ). The last type of inter-action between a biocontrol agent and a pathogen is parasitism.For instance, oomycetes can parasitize the mycelial structures ofpathogenic fungi ( e.g., Pythium oligandrum against Phaeomoniellachlamydospora [118] ).Mycorrhiza-induced resistance (MIR) promotes a better toler-ance of mycorrhized plants to abiotic and biotic stresses, namelybiotrophic and necrotrophic pathogens and nematodes [119] .Forexample, the AMF Rhizophagus intraradices can reduce the numberof root galls formed by the nematode Xiphinema index (responsiblefor the transmission of the grapevine fanleaf virus [120,121] ) andcould reduce the detrimental effects of the fungus Armillaria mellea(responsible for Armillaria root rot disease [122] ).The number of services that microorganisms can render tograpevines is large. The presence of these microorganisms (PGPBor AMF) within microbial communities seems essential to thehealth of the holobiont. We can suppose that an imbalance of thespeciﬁc richness or abundance of these species compared to otherscould be the cause or at least an aggravating factor of the develop-ment of certain declines of grapevine.IV.1.2. Grapevine declines caused by the presence of pathogenicmicroorganismsLike any perennial crop, grapevine is subject to many bioticstresses during its life cycle. Among them and in the context of sus-tainable viticulture, microbial agents (viruses, bacteria and fungi)are undoubtedly the most problematic since they require constantphytosanitary control [123] . If the literature is particularly richconcerning grapevine fungal diseases (the most consuming of pes-ticides), the fact remains that viral and bacterial diseases also havea strong impact on the crop production and sustainability of thevineyard.IV.1.2.1. Fungal actors. Many declines are directly linked to thepresence of a fungal pathogen [124–126] . For some fungal species,pest control strategies exist, are effective and the resulting declinescould remain limited. This is the case with Plasmopara viticola ,Ery-siphe necator orBotrytis cinerea (e.g.[127–130] ). On the other hand,such strategies are very limited and often not effective enough forother species. This is particularly the case for pathogens involvedin grapevine trunk diseases (GTD). Indeed, esca, eutypa diebackand Botryosphaeria dieback are major declines affecting youngand old vineyards, while others like black-foot or Petri disease(one of the ﬁve syndromes composing esca complex) are com-monly found only in young vineyards [131,132] .Symptoms common to most GTDs are rotting of the wood (vis-ible through cankers that affect part of or all the trunk section) aswell as discoloration and drying out of the shoots and leaves,which can sometimes occur suddenly and late in relation to theprimary infection[131,133] . Eutypa dieback is currently found inFrance, Australia and California [132] . Several Diatrypaceae speciesare responsible for this decline, but the most important one seemsto be Eutypa lata [133–135] .InBotryosphaeria, dieback is caused by a complex of around 30taxa belonging to different Botryosphaeriaceae species ( Botryo-sphaeria, Diplodia, Dothiorella, Lasiodiplodia, Neofusicoccum, Neoscy-talidium, Phaeobotryosphaeria, Spencermartinsia ), which causetrunk wood cankers or shoot dieback [133,134,136] . The fungal listinvolved in the esca decline complex is slightly shorter, but thenumber of candidates remains substantial ( i.e., Phaemoniellachlamydospora, different Phaeoacremonium and Fomitiporia species,Eutypa lata and Stereum hirsutum [131,133] ).IV.1.2.2. Viral actors. Grapevine is probably the crop that harborsthe greatest number of viruses, which live as a parasite/pathogeninside its cells. The recent expansion of high-throughput sequenc-ing technologies has given acceleration to the discovery ofunknown grapevine infecting viruses. To date, more than 70viruses and ﬁve viroids have been identiﬁed on Vitis vinifera[137] . Although the pathogenicity of all these viruses has not beenestablished, a number of them are responsible for severe grapevinediseases [138] . Such viruses affect several compartments of thegrapevine: mainly the leaves ( e.g., grapevine fanleaf virus, Arabismosaic virus, grapevine leafroll associated viruses, grapevine ﬂeckvirus), but also the wood ( e.g., rupestris stem pitting, corky bark,Kober stem grooving). The causal agents belong to the Nepovirus,Ampelovirus, Vitivirus, Foveavirus, Maraﬁvirus orMaculavirus gen-era. Viruses are most of the time transported by biotic vectors (ne-matodes, cochineals), but transmission can also occur throughpruning or grafting [139,140] . Infection is systemic (the virus ispresent in all the grapevine compartments).IV.1.2.3. Bacterial actors. All grapevine tissues can be affected bythree major bacterial declines caused by pathogenic bacteria grow-ing and circulating in the vascular system [141] . Bacterial necrosis,whose symptoms are often confused with those of frost or hail(drying out of the leaves and inﬂorescences and presence oflesions, bursts and cankers on the bunches and the shoots), iscaused by Xylophilus ampelinus . The European grapevine ( V. vini-fera) is the only known host [142] and this bacterium can growon grapevine in a latent state without expressing symptoms.Pierce’s disease is characterized by the degradation of xylemvessels and the disturbance of the trunk water ﬂux due to the pres-ence of Xylella fastidiosa. Consequently, the leaves dry out, becomenecrotic and drop [143] . The shoots are also affected, with laterbud break and diminished chlorotic growth. However, since theoptimum growth conditions for X. fastidiosa are warmer environ-ments ( i.e., close to 28 /C176C), that explain why this pathogen is notprevalent in areas where winter temperature drops under 0 /C176C[144] . Finally, crown gall is caused by Agrobacterium vitis , a bac-terium that lives quite frequently in the vascular system of thegrapevine without causing apparent damage [145] . Nevertheless,tumors of variable sizes can develop following wounds.IV.2. Appearance of symptoms: An imbalance of the microbialdiversity?The appearance of symptoms, characteristic of a given pathol-ogy, is conditioned by the presence of a plant pathogen or of a com-plex of pathogenic agents whose virulence will be expressed.Decline symptoms are commonly visible only in certain tissues,even if the plant is completely colonized [146] . In addition, patho-gens can be present in a latent, harmless form in the plant tissuesfor years before the decline becomes visible [147,148] . These ﬁnd-ings raise the question of the nature of the triggering event.IV.2.1. Microbial balance is sensitive to abiotic and biotic stressesIV.2.1.1. Impacts of abiotic stresses. The impact of certain abioticstresses ( e.g., heat, water) on triggering or worsening symptomshas been studied and conﬁrmed [148–150] even if it seems thatthese stresses are not related to the early phase of infection[151] . The fact that cultural practices or abiotic stresses also inﬂu-ence the composition and structure of the microbiota enlightensthe hypothesis of a microbial shift associated with certain grape-vine declines. Note, however, that the microbial shift could eitherbe the direct cause of the decline or the consequence of the impactof another stress (with an indirect cause and effect relationship).This hypothesis was conﬁrmed by studies mainly carried out onannual plants [152–154] as well as on some perennial plants tooP. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–157(shifts in the microbiota linked to horse chestnut bleeding cankerdisease in [155] , to olive knot disease in [156] , to huanglongbingin citrus in [157] or to acute oak decline in [158] ).IV.2.2.2. Impacts of biotic stressesIV.2.2.2.1. Human interventions. The expression of some decays hasbeen linked to human intervention, e.g., in the case of crown gall.Both the soil and contaminated plant material used in nurseries(in spite of hot water treatments) are sources of Agrobacteriumvitis. Once the bacterium is inside the vascular system, any kindof stress that requires cell multiplication can cause the appearanceof crown galls: grafting procedures, wounding due to the passageof farming devices, pruning or removing suckers are plausiblehuman activities causing the development of this illness[145,159,160] . Therefore, we can easily relate human interventionto the development of this decline as such.IV.2.2.2.2. Microbial pathogens. Despite technological advances inmetagenomics and the signiﬁcant reduction in costs associatedwith these techniques, there are only few studies to date that focuson the comparison of the microbiota in symptomatic ( i.e.,declined)and asymptomatic grapevines, especially for bacterial dieback. Inthe case of crown gall disease, A. vitis has been found signiﬁcantlypresent only on the graft point of ill plants compared to healthyones [159] . Interestingly, speciﬁc richness was higher in the graftunion of infected plants than in the graft union of healthy grape-vines. Moreover, the dominating microbiota varied throughoutthe year in healthy samples, while in symptomatic ones, the samethree species ( Pseudomonas sp.,Enterobacteriaceae sp. and Agrobac-terium vitis ) prevailed year-round. In Pierce disease, the absence orpresence of the disease impacts the endophytic communities pre-sent in the canes. A positive correlation between has been foundbetween this decay and four taxa with very low relative abun-dances: Bacillus ,Pediococcus ,Caulobacter and Dialister [161] .The existing work on fungal declines has mostly been carriedout in relation to wood declines, especially esca. In their study,Bruez et al. analyzed the fungal microbiota of wood tissues ofgrapevines with no foliar symptoms of esca or eutypa dieback[80]. Despite the absence of visible symptoms, they found manyGTD pathogens among the community and concluded that a bal-ance via competition was maintained between pathogenic fungi,mycoparasites and saprobes and prevented the development ofsymptoms. These results are supported by another study in whichit is shown that the differences in fungal composition betweensymptomatic and asymptomatic plants are less important than dif-ferences between organs within a same plant [99]. The factors thattrigger the imbalance allowing pathogens to express themselvesstill remain to be identiﬁed.Earlier, Bruez et al. compared the wood fungal communities ofplants with and without visible leaf symptoms of esca. No signiﬁ-cant differences in the composition of the communities weredemonstrated. In addition, the necrotic areas of the wood werenot richer in pathogenic fungi than the others [162] . Similar resultswere highlighted by [47] and [146] (see Fig. 3 ). It seems that theonset of symptoms cannot be correlated with the mere presenceof the fungus responsible for the decline inside the wood or withits greater or lesser abundance [38] (this is also the case for otherfungal diseases such as hoja de malvón [126] ).A recent study evensupposes that Fomitiporia mediterranea virulence (one of the patho-genic fungi responsible for esca) and in particular its capacity todegrade wood is due to an interaction with certain bacteria presentin the wood [163] . Nevertheless, signiﬁcant differences in endo-phytic bacterial composition have been found between the woodof symptomatic grapevines and the wood of asymptomaticgrapevines, whether they were necrotic or not: importantdifferences for Bacillales - more abundant in asymptomatic plant-, Xanthomonadales, Rhizobiales, Enterobacteriales and unidentiﬁedtaxa - more abundant in symptomatic grapevines - [162] . More-over, rhizosphere bacteria are more numerous at the base ofasymptomatic plants than at the base of plants whose leaves showsymptoms of esca [140] .The community composition does not vary [164] . Differences inmicrobial communities between symptomatic and asymptomaticplants, when they exist, seem to be localized at the level of thegrapevine rhizosphere, not in the wood or the leaves (see Fig. 3 ;[146,165,166] . The abundance of the genera Phaeoacremoniumand Phaeomoniella has been found higher in soils associated withsymptomatic grapevines compared to asymptomatic ones [55].Therefore, the source of pathogenic inoculum would be locatedin the soil and could be neutralized by the presence of other bacte-ria, hence a balance in the soils associated with asymptomaticplants (like Curvularia orCoprinopsis , more abundant in asymp-tomatic samples).These results bring into question the differential sensitivity ofsome fungal or bacterial taxa to biotic or abiotic variations. Thisis key because answering it could explain the appearance of micro-bial imbalances in decline situations.IV.2.2. What happens in the rhizosphere microbiota of declinedgrapevines?Given how plants recruit microorganisms, especially rhizo-sphere ones, we can hypothesize that the appearance of symptomsin declining plants is a consequence of a disruption of this recruit-ment. It is essential for the plant to maintain a permanent balancebetween recruiting beneﬁcial microorganisms and restrictingpathogens. This is not easy because the entry routes are the same[31]. On the one hand, some studies, essentially conducted withannual plants, have shown important active recruitment of beneﬁ-cial microorganisms in response to the decline, through the secre-tion of metabolites that stimulate speciﬁc microbes in thecommunity [167] . On the other hand, the location of microbescould change (epiphytes become endophytes [13]), raising thequestion of the determining factors of this change, and its potentialmodiﬁcation in case of disease.As explained previously, anthropogenic activities ( e.g.fertiliza-tion through nitrogen or sulfur deposition) can also modify rhizo-spheric microbiota, demonstrating the importance of the chemicalcomposition of soils in the establishment of microbial communi-ties. Thus, when studying plant decline, the hypothesis that themicrobial imbalance observed in the rhizosphere is due to disrup-tions of rhizodeposition is plausible. We already know that thecomposition of root exudates varies according to plant age [168–170] and genotype [72,171,172] . Abiotic stresses like drought orheat can modify rhizodeposition too [173,174] .On the other hand, changes in rhizodeposition have been linkedto biotic interactions. For example, the presence of fungal endo-phytes in Poaceae has been correlated to changes in rhizodeposi-tion [175] . The presence of nematodes or other pathogens has animpact on the quality and the quantity of exudates [176,177] . Myc-orrhization has a signiﬁcant impact on the nature of root exudates[178,179] . Thus, the inﬂuence of microorganisms (whether patho-genic or not) external to the plant on exuded metabolites seems tobe proven, essentially in annual plants.IV.2.3. Altered functions of the root microbiota may be related to theonset of symptomsIn the case of woody plants, the symptoms of decline can oftenbe linked to problems with the storage and the management ofreserves – e.g., a lower photosynthesis rate or vascular systemdegradation [23,180] . The quality and quantity of root exudatesare directly linked to the physiological state of the plant (includingthe quality and quantity of its reserves; Fig. 4 ). The appearance ofP. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–158decline symptoms can be explained by two interrelatedhypotheses:– The presence of a pathogen in the aerial parts disturbs certainmetabolic processes, like storage [181] . In consequence, rhi-zodeposition can be modiﬁed, and so can the composition ofthe rhizosphere microbiota [182–184] . This leads to an alter-ation of the functions performed by this microbiota ( [157] ;seeFig. 4 ), and can contribute to weakening the plant.– An imbalance in the rhizosphere microbiota leads to a modiﬁca-tion of the elements taken up by the plant. As a result, storage isaltered and the plant is weakened and more susceptible to thepathogens present in its tissues in a latent manner.To verify these hypotheses in the case of diebacks impactinggrapevine, clues can be provided by the small number of studiesexploring the relationships between the rhizosphere microbiotaand declines due to nutritional dysfunctioning. D’Amico et al.Fig. 3. Meta-barcoding analysis of fungal (A) and bacterial (B) microbiota colonizing non-necrotic woody tissues from healthy and esca-diseased young gra pevines. DNAswere extracted from different organs: rootstock, trunk and cordon. Only the 10 most abundant orders are displayed. In this experimental context, fun gal and bacterialmicrobiota varied according to organs but not diseased plant status ( according to Bruez et al. , 2020 [146] ).P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–159compared the rhizosphere microbiota of two different rootstocks –1103P, known in Italy to give potassium deﬁcits, and 5BB, whichprovides good K levels – to see if the differences in potassiumuptake were attributable to the root microbiota [185] . The micro-biota of 1103P had a reduced diversity compared to 5BB, particu-larly for microorganisms solubilizing potassium. In a studyfocused on the relation between microbiota and ferric chlorosis,the magnesium and chlorosis levels of the leaves were signiﬁcantlycorrelated with the composition of the soil bacterial community:the bacterial microbiota of the grapevines displaying ferric chloro-sis was signiﬁcantly different from the microbiota of the healthygrapevines [101] .V. Conclusion and perspectivesLike all plants or other macroorganisms, the grapevine closelyinteracts with a large number of microorganisms that can modu-late its physiology throughout its life cycle, keeping the grapevineholobiont healthy or not. The -omics sciences have marked a turn-ing point in the history of biology, especially in the description ofthe taxonomic composition of the microbial communities of iso-lated compartments of healthy-looking and decaying grapevine.To face the numerous diebacks that affect the grapevine, weneed to better understand plant microorganism andmicroorganism-microorganism relationships, the functional con-tributions of microbes to the grapevine holobiont, and the changeswithin communities in a decaying context. Up to date, only fewstudies addressed the functional characteristics of the microbiotathrough metabolomic and transcriptomic approaches in the grape-vine holobiont.Understanding the complexity of the grapevine holobiont is acrucial issue for the future of the wine industry. The study ofmicrobiota in a holobiont context opens large windows ontoreduced pesticide and chemical fertilizer inputs through biocon-trol, biostimulation and bio-fertilization, which are key levers forthe sustainable development of viticulture.Ethical statementThis article does not contain any studies with human or animalsubjects.CRediT authorship contribution statementPB and JCC initiated the writing of the manuscript. PEC and STlead the project administration, got the funding, managed the writ-ing, review & editing and supervised PB and JCC respectively. LJ andEvS contributed to the literature review. FF and OF co-supervisedPB’s PhD thesis with PEC. All the authors read and approved theﬁnal manuscript. All authors approved the submitted version.Declaration of Competing InterestThe authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan-cial interests or personal relationships that could have appearedto inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. The authors thankthe following institutions for ﬁnancial support: the BurgundyFig. 4. Grapevine-microorganism and microorganism-microorganism relationships in the soil. Such types of interactions are multiple and complex: 1 Root e xudates recruitand feed microorganisms. 2 Some microorganisms are nitrogen or phosphorus ﬁxators and mineralize organic matter. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AM F) supply the hostwith nutrient resources that are inaccessible to the roots because of their location ( biofertilization ). 3 Some pathogenic agents can induce declines. 4 In addition to theirability to induce the production of phytohormones by plants, certain plant-growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) can synthesize them directly. Certai n phytohormones regulateplant growth and increase plant tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses ( biostimulation ). 5 Some PGPB and AMF participate in the inhibition or suppression of pathogens viacompetition for ecological niches or for resources through antagonism, by inducing plant resistance, by interfering with the pathogen signaling sy stems or by suppressingpathogen virulence factors ( biocontrol/bioprotection ). 6 The mycelium and the mucilage of certain microorganisms enhance the cohesion between soil particles and createmicroaggregates; as a result, the soil structure is improved (inspired from [161] ).P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1510Franche Comté Regional Council, FranceAgriMer and CNIV for sup-porting the Holoviti project (Plan National Dépérissement du Vigno-ble) and the University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne. Moreover,the authors are grateful to D. Wipf for helpful and constructivediscussions.References[1] Gilbert JA, van der Lelie D, Zarraonaindia I. Microbial terroir for wine grapes.Proc Natl Acad Sci 2014;111(1):5–6. doi: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1320471110 .[2] Liu D, Zhang P, Chen D, Howell K. From the Vineyard to the Winery: HowMicrobial Ecology Drives Regional Distinctiveness of Wine. Front Microbiol2019;10:2679. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2019.02679 .[3] Van Leeuwen C, Seguin G. The concept of terroir in viticulture. J Wine Res2006;17(1):1–10. doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/09571260600633135 .[4] Gordon J, Knowlton N, Relman DA, Rohwer F, Youle M. Superorganisms andHolobionts: Looking for a term for the functional entity formed by a macrobeand its associated symbiotic microbes and viruses? The term is ‘‘holobiont”.Microbe Mag 2013;8:152–3. doi: https://doi.org/10.1128/microbe.8.152.1 .[5] Zilber-Rosenberg I, Rosenberg E. Role of microorganisms in the evolution ofanimals and plants: the hologenome theory of evolution. FEMS Microbiol Rev2008;32(5):723–35. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1574-6976.2008.00123.x .[6] Berg G, Grube M, Schloter M, Smalla K. Unraveling the plant microbiome:looking back and future perspectives. Front Microbiol 2014;5. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2014.00148 .[7] Pinto C, Gomes AC. Vitis vinifera microbiome: from basic research totechnological development. Biocontrol 2016;61(3):243–56. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10526-016-9725-4 .[8] Baldan E, Nigris S, Populin F, Zottini M, Squartini A, Baldan B. Identiﬁcation ofculturable bacterial endophyte community isolated from tissues ofVitisvinifera ‘‘Glera”. Plant Biosyst - Int J Deal Asp Plant Biol 2014;148(3):508–16. doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/11263504.2014.916364 .[9] Bulgari D, Casati P, Brusetti L, Quaglino F, Brasca M, Daffonchio D, et al.Endophytic bacterial diversity in grapevine ( Vitis vinifera L. ) leaves describedby 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis and length heterogeneity-PCR. JMicrobiol 2009;47(4):393–401. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s12275-009-0082-1 .[10] Bulgari D, Casati P, Quaglino F, Bianco PA. Endophytic bacterial community ofgrapevine leaves inﬂuenced by sampling date and phytoplasma infectionprocess. BMC Microbiol 2014;14(1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2180-14-198 .[11] Compant S, Mitter B, Colli-Mull JG, Gangl H, Sessitsch A. Endophytes ofgrapevine ﬂowers, berries, and seeds: Identiﬁcation of cultivable bacteria,comparison with other plant parts, and visualization of niches ofcolonization. Microb Ecol 2011;62(1):188–97. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-011-9883-y .[12] Marasco R, Rolli E, Fusi M, Cherif A, Abou-Hadid A, El-Bahairy U, et al. Plantgrowth promotion potential Is equally represented in diverse grapevine root-associated bacterial communities from different biopedoclimaticenvironments. BioMed Res Int 2013;2013:1–17. doi: https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/491091 .[13] West ER, Cother EJ, Steel CC, Ash GJ. The characterization and diversity ofbacterial endophytes of grapevine. Can J Microbiol 2010;56(3):209–16. doi:https://doi.org/10.1139/W10-004 .[14] Yousaf S, Bulgari D, Bergna A, Pancher M, Quaglino F, Casati P, et al.Pyrosequencing detects human and animal pathogenic taxa in the grapevineendosphere. Front Microbiol 2014;5. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2014.00327 .[15] Casieri L, Hofstetter V, Viret O, Gindro K. Fungal communities living in thewood of different cultivars of young Vitis vinifera plants. PhytopatholMediterr 2009;48:11 .[16] Cosoveanu A, Gimenez-Mariño C, Cabrera Y, Hernandez G, Cabrera R.Endophytic fungi from grapevine cultivars in Canary Islands and theiractivity against phytopatogenic fungi; 2014, p. 7.[17] González V, Tello ML. The endophytic mycota associated with Vitis vinifera incentral Spain. Fungal Divers 2011;47(1):29–42. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13225-010-0073-x .[18] Martini M, Musetti R, Grisan S, Polizzotto R, Borselli S, Pavan F, et al. DNA-Dependent Detection of the Grapevine Fungal Endophytes Aureobasidiumpullulans and Epicoccum nigrum . Plant Dis 2009;93(10):993–8. doi: https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-93-10-0993 .[19] Pinto C, Pinho D, Sousa S, Pinheiro M, Egas CC, Gomes A. Unravelling thediversity of grapevine microbiome. PLoS ONE 2014;9:e85622. doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0085622 .[20] Schubert A. Les mycorhizes à vésicules et arbuscules chez la vigne. ConnaissVigne Vin 1985;19(4):207. doi: https://doi.org/10.20870/oeno-one.1985.19.4.1332 .[21] Holland TC. Vineyard soil communities and AMF associating with grapevineroots in response to irrigation frequency. British Columbia 2013.[22] Trouvelot S, Bonneau L, Redecker D, van Tuinen D, Adrian M, Wipf D.Arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis in viticulture: a review. Agron Sustain Dev2015;35(4):1449–67. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13593-015-0329-7 .[23] Bettenfeld P, Fontaine F, Trouvelot S, Fernandez O, Courty P-E. Woody plantdeclines, what’s wrong with the microbiome? Trends Plant Sci 2020;25(4):381–94 .[24] Thomas P, Sekhar AC, Shaik SP. High taxonomic diversity of cultivation-recalcitrant endophytic bacteria in grapevine ﬁeld shoots, their in vitrointroduction, and unsuspected persistence. Planta 2017;246(5):879–98. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s00425-017-2733-5.[25] Vandenkoornhuyse P, Quaiser A, Duhamel M, Le Van A, Dufresne A. Theimportance of the microbiome of the plant holobiont. New Phytol 2015;206(4):1196–206. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.2015.206.issue-410.1111/nph.13312 .[26] Aziz A, Perazzolli M, Gramaje D, Zyprian EM, Cantu D. Editorial: RecentAdvances on Grapevine-Microbe Interactions: From Signal Perception toResistance Response. Front Plant Sci 2020;11:1164. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.01164 .[27] Hacquard S, Garrido-Oter R, González A, Spaepen S, Ackermann G, Lebeis S,et al. Microbiota and Host Nutrition across Plant and Animal Kingdoms. CellHost Microbe 2015;17(5):603–16. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chom.2015.04.009 .[28] Deyett E, Rolshausen PE. Endophytic microbial assemblage in grapevine.FEMS Microbiol Ecol 2020 .[29] Zarraonaindia I, Owens SM, Weisenhorn P, West K, Hampton-Marcell J, Lax S,et al. The soil microbiome inﬂuences grapevine-associated microbiota. MBio2015;6(2). doi: https://doi.org/10.1128/mBio.02527-14.[30] Sasse J, Martinoia E, Northen T. Feed Your Friends: Do Plant Exudates Shapethe Root Microbiome? Trends Plant Sci 2018;23(1):25–41. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2017.09.003 .[31] Thoms D, Liang Y, Haney CH. Maintaining symbiotic homeostasis: how doplants engage with beneﬁcial microorganisms while at the same timerestricting pathogens? Mol Plant Microbe Interact 2021;34(5):462–9.[32] Mercado-Blanco J. Life of Microbes Inside the Plant. In: Lugtenberg B, editor.Princ. Plant-Microbe Interact.. Chem: Springer International Publishing;2015. p. 25–32. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-08575-3_5 .[33] Kim KW. Plant trichomes as microbial habitats and infection sites. Eur J PlantPathol 2019;154(2):157–69. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10658-018-01656-0 .[34] Bucci EM. Xylella fastidiosa , a new plant pathogen that threatens globalfarming: Ecology, molecular biology, search for remedies. Biochem BiophysRes Commun 2018;502(2):173–82. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bbrc.2018.05.073 .[35] Chandi RS. Integrated Management of Insect Vectors of Plant Pathogens. AgricRev 2020. doi: https://doi.org/10.18805/ag.R-1982 .[36] Abdelfattah A, Sanzani SN, Wisniewski M, Berg G, Cacciola SO, Schena L.Revealing cues for fungal interplay in the plant-air interface in vineyards.Front Plant Sci 2019 .[37] Fort T, Robin C, Capdevielle X, Delière L, Vacher C. Foliar fungal communitiesstrongly differ between habitat patches in a landscape mosaic. PeerJ 2016 .[38] Del Frari G, Gobbi A, Aggerbeck MR, Oliveira H, Hansen LH, Ferreira RB.Characterization of the wood mycobiome of Vitis vinifera in a vineyardaffected by Esca. Spatial distribution of fungal communities and theirputative relation with leaf symptoms. Front Plant Sci 2019 .[39] Bozoudi D, Tsaltas D. Grape Microbiome: Potential and Opportunities as aSource of Starter Cultures. In: Morata A, Loira I, editors. Grape WineBiotechnol. InTech; 2016. doi: https://doi.org/10.5772/64806 .[40] Mezzasalma V, Sandionigi A, Guzzetti L, Galimberti A, Grando MS, TardaguilaJ, et al. Geographical and cultivar features differentiate grape microbiota innorthern Italy and Spain vineyards. Front Microbiol 2018;9. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.0094610.3389/fmicb.2018.00946.s001 .[41] Martins G, Lauga B, Miot-Sertier C, Mercier A, Lonvaud A, Soulas M-L, et al.Characterization of epiphytic bacterial communities from grapes, leaves, barkand soil of grapevine plants grown, and their relations. PLoS ONE 2013;8:e73013. doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0073013 .[42] Vitulo N, Lemos Jr WJF, Calgaro M, Confalone M, Felis GE, Zapparoli G, et al.Bark and grape microbiome of [i]Vitis vinifera[/i]: inﬂuence of geographicpatterns and agronomic management on bacterial diversity. Front Microbiol2019.[43] Andreolli M, Lampis S, Vallini G. Diversity, Distribution and Functional Role ofBacterial Endophytes in Vitis vinifera. In: Maheshwari DK, editor. EndophytesBiol. Biotechnol., vol. 15, Cham: Springer International Publishing; 2017, p.233–66. http://dx.doi.10.1007/978-3-319-66541-2_10 .[44] Dong C-J, Wang L-L, Li Q, Shang Q-M. Bacterial communities in therhizosphere, phyllosphere and endosphere of tomato plants. PLOS ONE2019;14:e0223847. doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0223847 .[45] Martínez-Diz MDP, Andrés-Sodupe M, Bujanda R, Díaz-Losada E, Eichmeier A,Gramaje D. Soil-plant compartments affect fungal microbiome diversity andcomposition in grapevine. Fungal Ecol 2019;41:234–44 .[46] Singh P, Santoni S, This P, Péros J-P. Genotype-environment interactionshapes the microbial assemblage in grapevine’s phyllosphere andcarposphere: An NGS approach. Microorganisms 2018;6:96. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms6040096 .[47] Elena G, Bruez E, Rey P, Luque J. Microbiota of grapevine woody tissues withor without esca-foliar symptoms in northeast Spain. Phytopathol Mediterr2018;18:ix. doi: https://doi.org/10.4995/ia.2014.3293 .[48] Morrison-Whittle P, Goddard MR. Quantifying the relative roles of selectiveand neutral processes in deﬁning eukaryotic microbial communities. ISME J2015;9(9):2003–11. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/ismej.2015.18 .P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1511[49] Marasco R, Rolli E, Fusi M, Michoud G, Daffonchio D. Grapevine rootstocksshape underground bacterial microbiome and networking but not potentialfunctionality. Microbiome 2018;6(1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40168-017-0391-2 .[50] Hily J-M, Demanèche S, Poulicard N, Tannières M, Djennane S, Beuve M, et al.Metagenomic-based impact study of transgenic grapevine rootstock on itsassociated virome and soil bacteriome. Plant Biotechnol J 2018;16(1):208–20.doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/pbi.2018.16.issue-110.1111/pbi.12761.[51] Balestrini R, Magurno F, Walker C, Lumini E, Bianciotto V. Cohorts ofarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in Vitis vinifera , a typical Mediterraneanfruit crop: Cohorts of AM fungi in vineyards. Environ Microbiol Rep2010;2:594–604. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1758-2229.2010.00160.x.[52] Berlanas C, Berbegal M, Elena G, Laidani M, Cibriain JF, Sagües A, et al. Thefungal and bacterial rhizosphere microbiome associated with grapevinerootstock genotypes in mature and young vineyards. Front Microbiol2019;10. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2019.0114210.3389/fmicb.2019.01142.s001 .[53] Longa CMO, Nicola L, Antonielli L, Mescalchin E, Zanzotti R, Turco E, et al. Soilmicrobiota respond to green manure in organic vineyards. J Appl Microbiol2017;123(6):1547–60. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/jam.2017.123.issue-610.1111/jam.13606 .[54] Manici LM, Saccà ML, Caputo F, Zanzotto A, Gardiman M, Fila G. Long- termgrapevine cultivation and agro-environment affect rhizosphere microbiomerather than plant age. Appl Soil Ecol 2017;119:214–25. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsoil.2017.06.027 .[55] Nerva L, Zanzotto A, Gardiman M, Gaiotti F, Chitarra W. Soil microbiomeanalysis in an ESCA diseased vineyard. Soil Biol Biochem 2019;135:60–70 .[56] Schreiner RP, Mihara KL. The diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiampliﬁed from grapevine roots ([i]Vitis vinifera[/i] L.) in Oregon vineyards isseasonally stable and inﬂuenced by soil and vine age. Mycologia2009:599–611.[57] Vionnet L, De Vrieze M, Agnès D, Gfeller A, Lüthi A, L’Haridon F, et al.Microbial life in the grapevine: what can we expect from the leafmicrobiome? OENO One 2018;52(3):219–24 .[58] Bokulich NA, Thorngate JH, Richardson PM, Mills DA. Microbial biogeographyof wine grapes is conditioned by cultivar, vintage, and climate. Proc Natl AcadSci 2014;111(1):E139–48. doi: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1317377110 .[59] Gayevskiy V, Goddard MR. Geographic delineations of yeast communities andpopulations associated with vines and wines in New Zealand. ISME J 2012;6(7):1281–90 .[60] Drumonde-Neves J, Franco-Duarte R, Lima T, Schuller D, Pais C. Associationbetween Grape Yeast Communities and the Vineyard Ecosystems. PLOS ONE2017;12:e0169883. doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0169883 .[61] Frank A, Saldierna Guzmán J, Shay J. Transmission of Bacterial Endophytes.Microorganisms 2017;5(4):70. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms5040070 .[62] Swift JF, Hall ME, Harris ZN, Kwasniewski MT, Miller AJ. Grapevine microbiotareﬂect diversity among compartments and complex interactions within andamong root and shoot systems. Microorganisms 2021.[63] Zaura E, Keijser BJF, Huse SM, Crielaard W. Deﬁning the healthy ‘‘coremicrobiome” of oral microbial communities. BMC Microbiol 2009;9(1):259.doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2180-9-259 .[64] Zhang S, Chen Xi, Zhong Q, Huang Z, Bai Z. Relations among epiphyticmicrobial communities from soil, leaves and grapes of the grapevine. Front.Life Sci 2017;10(1):73–83 .[65] Gramaje D, Eichmeier A, Spetik M, Carbone MJ, Bujanda R, Vallance J, et al.Exploring the temporal dynamics of the fungal microbiome in rootstocks, thelesser-known half of the grapevine crop. In Review; 2021. http://dx.doi.10.21203/rs.3.rs-1044951/v1 .[66] Knapp DG, Lázár A, Molnár A, Vajna B, Karácsony Z, Váczy KZ, et al. Above-ground parts of white grapevine VITIS VINIFERA cv. Furmint share core membersof the fungal microbiome. Environ Microbiol Rep 2021;13:509–20. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/1758-2229.12950 .[67] Pinto C. Vinemicrobiome : une analyse approfondie de la communautémicrobienne naturelle de [i]Vitis vinifera[/i]. L. 2017.[68] Vink SN, Dini-Andreote F, Höﬂe R, Kicherer A, Salles JF. Interactive Effects ofScion and Rootstock Genotypes on the Root Microbiome of Grapevines (Vitisspp. L.). Appl Sci 2021;11:1615. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/app11041615 .[69] Dries L, Bussotti S, Pozzi C, Kunz R, Schnell S, Löhnertz O, et al. RootstocksShape Their Microbiome—Bacterial Communities in the Rhizosphere ofDifferent Grapevine Rootstocks. Microorganisms 2021;9(4):822. doi:https://doi.org/10.3390/microorganisms9040822.[70] Andreolli M, Lampis S, Zapparoli G, Angelini E, Vallini G. Diversity of bacterialendophytes in 3 and 15 year-old grapevines of Vitis vinifera cv. Corvina andtheir potential for plant growth promotion and phytopathogen control.Microbiol Res 2016;183:42–52. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micres.2015.11.009 .[71] Hernandez MM, Menéndez CM. Inﬂuence of seasonality and managementpractices on diversity and composition of fungal communities in vineyardsoils. Appl Soil Ecol 2019;135:113–9 .[72] Micallef SA, Shiaris MP, Colón-Carmona A. Inﬂuence of Arabidopsis thalianaaccessions on rhizobacterial communities and natural variation in rootexudates. J Exp Bot 2009;60:1729–42. doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/jxb/erp053 .[73] Redford AJ, Bowers RM, Knight R, Linhart Y, Fierer N. The ecology of thephyllosphere: geographic and phylogenetic variability in the distribution ofbacteria on tree leaves: Biogeography of phyllosphere bacterial communities.Environ Microbiol 2010;12:2885–93. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02258.x .[74] Wagner MR, Lundberg DS, del Rio TG, Tringe SG, Dangl JL, Mitchell-Olds T.Host genotype and age shape the leaf and root microbiomes of a wildperennial plant. Nat Commun 2016;7:12151. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms12151 .[75] Baumgartner K, Rizzo DM. Relative Resistance of Grapevine Rootstocks toArmillaria Root Disease; 2006, p. 7.[76] Gramaje D, García-Jiménez J, Armengol J. Field Evaluation of GrapevineRootstocks Inoculated with Fungi Associated with Petri Disease and Esca. AmJ Enol Vitic 2010;61(4):512–20. doi: https://doi.org/10.5344/ajev.2010.10021 .[77] Wallis CM, Wallingford AK, Chen J. Grapevine rootstock effects on scion sapphenolic levels, resistance to Xylella fastidiosa infection, and progression ofPierce’s disease. Front Plant Sci 2013;4. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2013.00502 .[78] Singh P, Gobbi A, Santoni S, Hansen LH, This P, Péros J-P. Assessing the impactof plant genetic diversity in shaping the microbial community structure ofVitis vinifera phyllosphere in the Mediterranean. Front Life Sci 2018;11(1):35–46. doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/21553769.2018.1552628 .[79] Zhang S, Wang Y, Chen Xi, Cui B, Bai Z, Zhuang G. Variety featuresdifferentiate microbiota in the grape leaves. Can J Microbiol 2020;66(11):653–63. doi: https://doi.org/10.1139/cjm-2019-0551.[80] Bruez E, Baumgartner K, Bastien S, Travadon R, Guérin-Dubrana L, Rey P.Various fungal communities colonise the functional wood tissues of oldgrapevines externally free from grapevine trunk disease symptoms: Fungalmicroﬂora of GTD-free old vines. Aust J Grape Wine Res 2016;22(2):288–95.doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/ajgw.12209.[81] Dissanayake AJ, Purahong W, Wubet T, Hyde KD, Zhang W, Xu H, et al. Directcomparison of culture-dependent and culture-independent molecularapproaches reveal the diversity of fungal endophytic communities in stemsof grapevine ( Vitis vinifera ). Fungal Divers 2018;90(1):85–107. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13225-018-0399-3 .[82] Ji W, Han K, Cai Y, Mu Y, Zhao L, Zhang M, et al. Characterization ofrhizosphere bacterial community and berry quality of Hutai No.8 ([i]Vitisvinifera[/i] L.) with different ages, and their relations. J Sci Food Agric 2019.[83] Novello G, Gamalero E, Bona E, Boatti L, Mignone F, Massa N, et al. Therhizosphere bacterial microbiota of [i]Vitis vinifera[/i] cv. Pinot noir in anintegrated pest management vineyard. Front Microbiol 2017 .[84] Liu Di, Howell K. Community succession of the grapevine fungal microbiomein the annual growth cycle. Environ Microbiol 2021;23(4):1842–57. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/emi.v23.410.1111/1462-2920.15172 .[85] Gobbi A, Kyrkou I, Filippi E, Ellegaard-Jensen L, Hansen LH. Seasonal epiphyticmicrobial dynamics on grapevine leaves under biocontrol and copperfungicide treatments. Sci Rep 2020:1–13 .[86] Corneo PE, Pellegrini A, Cappellin L, Roncador M, Chierici M, Gessler C, et al.Microbial community structure in vineyard soils across altitudinal gradientsand in different seasons. FEMS Microbiol Ecol 2013;84(3):588–602. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/femsec.2013.84.issue-310.1111/1574-6941.12087 .[87] Setati ME, Jacobson D, Bauer FF. Sequence-based analysis of the Vitis viniferaL.cv Cabernet Sauvignon grape must mycobiome in three south africanvineyards employing distinct agronomic systems. Front Microbiol 2015;6.doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2015.01358 .[88] Vega-Avila AD, Gumiere T, Andrade PAM, Lima-Perim JE, Durrer A, Baigori M,et al. Bacterial communities in the rhizosphere of Vitis vinifera L. cultivatedunder distinct agricultural practices in Argentina. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek2015;107(2):575–88. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10482-014-0353-7 .[89] Likar M, Stres B, Rusjan D, Potisek M, Regvar M. Ecological and conventionalviticulture gives rise to distinct fungal and bacterial microbial communitiesin vineyard soils. Appl Soil Ecol 2017;113:86–95.[90] Pancher M, Ceol M, Corneo PE, Longa CMO, Yousaf S, Pertot I, et al. FungalEndophytic Communities in Grapevines (Vitis vinifera L.) Respond to CropManagement. Appl Environ Microbiol 2012;78(12):4308–17. doi: https://doi.org/10.1128/AEM.07655-11 .[91] Hendgen M, Hoppe B, Döring J, Friedel M, Kauer R, Frisch M, et al. Effects ofdifferent management regimes on microbial biodiversity in vineyard soils. SciRep 2018;8(1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-27743-0 .[92] Burns KN, Bokulich NA, Cantu D, Greenhut RF, Kluepfel DA, O’Geen AT, et al.Vineyard soil bacterial diversity and composition revealed by 16S rRNAgenes: Differentiation by vineyard management. Soil Biol Biochem2016;103:337–48. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.09.007.[93] Chou M-Y, Vanden Heuvel J, Bell TH, Panke-Buisse K, Kao-Knifﬁn J. Vineyardunder-vine ﬂoor management alters soil microbial composition, while thefruit microbiome shows no corresponding shifts. Sci Rep 2018;8(1). doi:https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-29346-1 .[94] Campisano A, Antonielli L, Pancher M, Yousaf S, Pindo M, Pertot I. Bacterialendophytic communities in the grapevine depend on pest management. PLoSONE 2014;9:e112763. doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0112763 .[95] Varanda CMR, Oliveira M, Materatski P, Landum M, Clara MIE, Félix M, et al.Fungal endophytic communities associated to the phyllosphere of grapevinecultivars under different types of management. Fungal Biol2016;120:1525–36. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.funbio.2016.08.002.[96] Vives-Peris V, de Ollas C, Gómez-Cadenas A, Pérez-Clemente RM. Rootexudates: from plant to rhizosphere and beyond. Plant Cell Rep 2020;39(1):3–17 .P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1512[97] Wu Y, Kwak J-H, Karst J, Ni M, Yan Y, Lv X, et al. Long-term nitrogen and sulfurdeposition increased root-associated pathogen diversity and changedmutualistic fungal diversity in a boreal forest. Soil Biol Biochem2021;155:108163. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2021.108163 .[98] Perazzolli M, Antonielli L, Storari M, Puopolo G, Pancher M, Giovannini O,et al. Resilience of the natural phyllosphere microbiota of the grapevine tochemical and biological pesticides. Appl Environ Microbiol 2014;80(12):3585–96. doi: https://doi.org/10.1128/AEM.00415-14.[99] Geiger A, Karácsony Z, Golen R, Váczy KZ, Geml J. The compositional turnoverof grapevine-associated plant pathogenic fungal communities are greateramong intraindividual microhabitats and terroirs than among healthy andEsca-diseased plants. Phytopathology/C2102021:PHYTO-05-21-0190-R.. doi:https://doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-05-21-0190-R .[100] Coller E, Cestaro A, Zanzotti R, Bertoldi D, Pindo M, Larger S, et al. Microbiomeof vineyard soils is shaped by geography and management. Microbiome2019;7(1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40168-019-0758-7 .[101] Lewis RW, LeTourneau MK, Davenport JR, Sullivan TS. ‘Concord’ grapevinenutritional status and chlorosis rank associated with fungal and bacterial rootzone microbiomes. Plant Physiol Biochem 2018;129:429–36. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.plaphy.2018.06.011 .[102] Carbone MJ, Alaniz S, Mondino P, Gelabert M, Eichmeier A, Tekielska D, et al.Drought Inﬂuences Fungal Community Dynamics in the GrapevineRhizosphere and Root Microbiome. J Fungi 2021;7:686. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/jof7090686 .[103] Steenwerth KL, Drenovsky RE, Lambert J-J, Kluepfel DA, Scow KM, Smart DR.Soil morphology, depth and grapevine root frequency inﬂuence microbialcommunities in a Pinot noir vineyard. Soil Biol Biochem 2008;40:1330–40.doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2007.04.031 .[104] Liang H, Wang X, Yan J, Luo L. Characterizing the intra-vineyard variation ofsoil bacterial and fungal communities. Front Microbiol 2019 .[105] Turner PV. The role of the gut microbiota on animal model reproducibility.Anim Models Exp Med 2018;1:109–15. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/ame2.12022 .[106] Compant S, Brader G, Muzammil S, Sessitsch A, Lebrihi A, Mathieu F. Use ofbeneﬁcial bacteria and their secondary metabolites to control grapevinepathogen diseases. Biocontrol 2013;58:435–55. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10526-012-9479-6 .[107] Mercado-Blanco J, Abrantes I, Barra Caracciolo A, Bevivino A, Ciancio A,Grenni P, et al. Belowground Microbiota and the Health of Tree Crops. FrontMicrobiol 2018;9. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01006 .[108] Noceto P-A, Bettenfeld P, Boussageon R, Hériché M, Sportes A, van Tuinen D,et al. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, a key symbiosis in the development ofquality traits in crop production, alone or combined with plant growth-promoting bacteria. Mycorrhiza 2021;31:655–69. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-021-01054-1 .[109] Alori ET, Glick BR, Babalola OO. Microbial phosphorus solubilization and itspotential for use in sustainable agriculture. Front Microbiol 2017;8 .[110] Rolli E, Marasco R, Saderi S, Corretto E, Mapelli F, Cherif A, et al. Root-associated bacteria promote grapevine growth: from the laboratory to theﬁeld. Plant Soil 2016 .[111] Samad A, Trognitz F, Compant S, Antonielli L, Sessitsch A. Shared and host-speciﬁc microbiome diversity and functioning of grapevine andaccompanying weed plants: Microbial communities associated withgrapevine and vineyard weeds. Environ Microbiol 2017;19:1407–24. doi:https://doi.org/10.1111/1462-2920.13618.[112] Rezgui A, Ben Ghnaya-Chakroun A, Vallance J, Bruez E, Hajlaoui MR, Sadﬁ-Zouaoui N, et al. Endophytic bacteria with antagonistic traits inhabit thewood tissues of grapevines from Tunisian vineyards. Biol Control2016;99:28–37. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.biocontrol.2016.04.005 .[113] Ozdemir G, Akpinar C, Sabir A, Bilir H, Tangolar S, Ortas I. Effect of inoculationwith mycorrhizal fungi on growth and nutrient uptake of grapevinegenotypes ([i]Vitis[/i] spp.). EuropJHortSci 2010:103–10 .[114] Nogales A, Luque J, Estaún V, Camprubí A, Garcia-Figueres F, Calvet C.Differential growth of mycorrhizal ﬁeld-inoculated grapevine rootstocks intwo replant soils; 2009, p. 6.[115]Salomon MV, Purpora R, Bottini R, Piccoli P. Rhizosphere associated bacteriatrigger accumulation of terpenes in leaves of [i]Vitis vinifera[/i] L. cv. Malbecthat protect cells against reactive oxygen species. Plant Physiol Biochem2016:295–304 .[116] Salomon MV, Bottini R, Filho GADS, Cohen AC, Moreno D, Gil M, et al. Bacteriaisolated from roots and rhizosphere of [i]VItis vinifera[/i] retard water losses,induce abscisic acid accumulation and synthesis of defense-related terpenesin [i]in vitro[/i] cultured grapevine. Physiol Plant 2014:359–74.[117] Schoonbeek H, Jacquat-Bovet A-C, Mascher F, Métraux J-P. Oxalate-degradingbacteria can protect [i]Arabidopsis thaliana[/i] and crop plants against [i]Botrytis cinerea[/i]. Mol Plant Microbe Interact 2007:1535–44 .[118] Yacoub A, Gerbore J, Magnin N, Chambon P, Dufour M-C, Corio-Costet M-F,et al. Ability of [i]Pythium oligandrum[/i] strains to protect [i]Vitis vinifera[/i]L., by inducing plant resistance against [i]Phaeomoniella chlamydospora[/i], apathogen involved in Esca, a grapevine trunk disease. Biol Control 2016:7–16 .[119] Cameron DD, Neal AL, van Wees SCM, Ton J. Mycorrhiza-induced resistance:more than the sum of its parts? Trends Plant Sci 2013;18:539–45. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2013.06.004 .[120] Hao Z, Fayolle L, van Tuinen D, Chatagnier O, Li X, Gianinazzi S, et al. Local andsystemic mycorrhiza-induced protection again the ectoparasitic nematodeXiphinema index involves priming of defence gene responses in grapevine;2012, p. 16.[121] Hao Z, van Tuinen D, Fayolle L, Chatagnier O, Li X, Chen B, et al. Arbuscularmycorrhiza affects [i]grapevine fanleaf virus[/i] transmission by thenematode vector [i]Xiphinema index[/i]. Appl Soil Ecol 2018:107–11 .[122] Nogales A, Aguirreolea J, Santa María E, Camprubí A, Calvet C. Response ofmycorrhizal grapevine to Armillaria mellea inoculation: disease developmentand polyamines. Plant Soil 2009;317:177–87. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-008-9799-6 .[123] Armijo G, Schlechter R, Agurto M, Muñoz D, Nuñez C, Arce-Johnson P.Grapevine Pathogenic Microorganisms: Understanding Infection Strategiesand Host Response Scenarios. Front Plant Sci 2016;7. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2016.00382 .[124] Gramaje D, Armengol J, Mohammadi H, Banihashemi Z, Mostert L. NovelPhaeoacremonium species associated with Petri disease and esca of grapevinein Iran and Spain. Mycologia 2009;101:920–9. doi: https://doi.org/10.3852/08-222 .[125] Del Frari G, Oliveira H, Boavida Ferreira R. White Rot Fungi(Hymenochaetales) and Esca of Grapevine: Insights from RecentMicrobiome Studies. J Fungi 2021;7:770. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/jof7090770 .[126] Paolinelli M, Escoriaza G, Cesari C, Garcia-Lampasona S, Hernandez-MartinezR. Characterization of Grapevine Wood Microbiome Through aMetatranscriptomic Approach. Microb Ecol 2021. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-021-01801-z .[127] Buonassisi D, Colombo M, Migliaro D, Dolzani C, Peressotti E, Mizzotti C, et al.Breeding for grapevine downy mildew resistance: a review of ‘‘omics”approaches. Euphytica 2017;213:103. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10681-017-1882-8 .[128] Essling M, McKay S, Petrie PR. Fungicide programs used to manage powderymildew (Erysiphe necator) in Australian vineyards. Crop Prot 2021;139:. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cropro.2020.105369 105369.[129] Ghule SB, Sawant IS, Sawant SD, Saha S, Devarumath RM. Isolation andidentiﬁcation of three new mycoparasites of Erysiphe necator for biologicalcontrol of grapevine powdery mildew. Australas Plant Pathol2019;48:351–67. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s13313-019-00636-0.[130] Gessler C, Pertot I, Perazzolli M. [i]Plasmopara viticola[/i]: a review ofknowledge on downy mildew of grapevine and effective diseasemanagement. Phytopathol Mediterr 2011:3–44 .[131] Fontaine F, Gramaje D, Armengol J, Smart R, Nagy ZA, Borgo M, et al.Grapevine trunk diseases. A review. OIV Publ 2016. doi: https://doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-12-18-0488-FI .[132] Mondello V, Songy A, Battiston E, Pinto C, Coppin C, Trotel-Aziz P, et al.Grapevine trunk diseases: A review of ﬁfteen years of trials for their controlwith chemicals and biocontrol agents. Plant Dis 2018;102:1189–217. doi:https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-08-17-1181-FE .[133] Bertsch C, Ramírez-Suero M, Magnin-Robert M, Larignon P, Chong J, Abou-Mansour E, et al. Grapevine trunk diseases: complex and still poorlyunderstood. Plant Pathol 2013;62:243–65. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-3059.2012.02674.x .[134] Gramaje D, Úrbez-Torres JR, Sosnowski MR. Managing Grapevine TrunkDiseases With Respect to Etiology and Epidemiology: Current Strategies andFuture Prospects. Plant Dis 2018;102:12–39. doi: https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-04-17-0512-FE .[135] Rolshausen PE, Greve LC, Labavitch JM, Mahoney NE, Molyneux RJ, GublerWD. Pathogenesis of Eutypa lata in Grapevine: Identiﬁcation of VirulenceFactors and Biochemical Characterization of Cordon Dieback. Phytopathology2008;98:222–9. doi: https://doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-98-2-0222 .[136] Úrbez-Torres JR. The status of Botryosphaeriaceae species infectinggrapevines. Phytopathol Mediterr 2011.[137] Martelli GP, Sabanadzovic S, Abou-Ghanem Sabanadzovic N, Edwards MC,Dreher T. The family Tymoviridae. Arch Virol 2002;147:1837–46. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s007050200045 .[138] Basso MF, Fajardo TVM, Saldarelli P. GRAPEVINE VIRUS DISEASES:ECONOMICIMPACT AND CURRENT ADVANCES IN VIRAL PROSPECTION ANDMANAGEMENT. Rev Bras Frutic 2017;39. doi: https://doi.org/10.1590/0100-29452017411 .[139] Maliogka VI, Martelli GP, Fuchs M, Katis NI. Control of Viruses InfectingGrapevine. Adv. Virus Res., vol. 91. Elsevier; 2015, p. 175–227. http://dx.doi.10.1016/bs.aivir.2014.11.002 .[140] Martelli GP. Directory of virus and virus-like diseases of the grapevine andtheir agents. J Plant Pathol 2014;96. doi: https://doi.org/10.4454/JPP.V96I1SUP .[141] Szegedi E, Civerolo EL. Bacterial diseases of grapevine. Int J Hortic Sci2011;17. doi: https://doi.org/10.31421/IJHS/17/3/956 .[142] Smith IM, British Society for Plant Pathology, Mediterranean Plant ProtectionOrganization, editors. European handbook of plant diseases. Oxford[Oxfordshire] ; Boston: Blackwell Scientiﬁc Publications; 1988.[143] Hopkins DL, Purcell AH. Xylella fastidiosa : Cause of Pierce’s Disease ofGrapevine and Other Emergent Diseases. Plant Dis 2002;86:1056–66. doi:https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS.2002.86.10.1056 .[144] Lieth JH, Meyer MM, Yeo K-H, Kirkpatrick BC. Modeling Cold Curing ofPierce’s Disease in Vitis vinifera ‘Pinot Noir’ and ‘Cabernet Sauvignon’Grapevines in California. Phytopathology/C2102011;101:1492–500. doi:https://doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-08-10-0207 .P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1513[145] Burr TJ, Bazzi C, Süle S, Otten L. Crown Gall of Grape: Biology of Agrobacteriumvitis and the Development of Disease Control Strategies. Plant Dis1998;82:1288–97. doi: https://doi.org/10.1094/PDIS.1998.82.12.1288 .[146] Bruez E, Vallance J, Gautier A, Laval V, Compant S, Maurer W, et al. Majorchanges in grapevine wood microbiota are associated with the onset of esca,a devastating trunk disease. Environ Microbiol 2020 .[147] Berlanas C, Ojeda S, Lopez-Manzanares B, Andrés-Sodupe M, Bujanda R, delMartinez-Diz M, et al. Occurrence and diversity of Black-foot disease fungi insymptomless grapevine nursery stock in Spain. Plant Dis 2020 .[148] Hrycan J, Hart MM, Bowen P, Forge T, Úrbez-Torres JR. Grapevine trunkdisease fungi: their roles as latent pathogens and stress factors that favourdisease development and symptom expression. Phytopathol Mediterr 2020.[149] Songy A, Fernandez O, Clément C, Larignon P, Fontaine F. Grapevine trunkdiseases under thermal and water stresses. Planta 2019. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00425-019-03111-8 .[150] Calvo-Garrido C, Songy A, Marmol A, Roda R, Clément C, Fontaine F.Description of the relationship between trunk disease expression andmeteorological conditions, irrigation and physiological response inChardonnay grapevines. OENO One 2021;55:97–113. doi: https://doi.org/10.20870/oeno-one.2021.55.2.4548 .[151] Sosnowski MR, Ayres MR, Scott ES. The inﬂuence of water deﬁcit stress on thegrapevine trunk disease pathogens [i]Eutypa lata[/i] and [i]Diplodia seriata[/i]. Plant Dis 2020 .[152] Larousse M, Rancurel C, Syska C, Palero F, Etienne C, Industri B, et al. Tomatoroot microbiota and [i]Phytophtora parasitica[/i]-associated disease.Microbiome 2017 .[153] Seybold H, Demetrowitsch TJ, Hassani MA, Szymczak S, Reim E, Haueisen J,et al. A fungal pathogen induces systemic susceptibility and systemic shifts inwheat metabolome and microbiome composition. Nat Commun 2020.[154] Yang F, Zhang J, Zhang H, Ji G, Zeng L, Li Y, et al. Bacterial blight induced shiftsin endophytic microbiome of rice leaves and the enrichment of speciﬁcbacterial strains with pathogen antagonism. Front. Plant Sci 2020 .[155] Koskella B, Meaden S, Crowther WJ, Leimu R, Metcalf CJE. A signature of treehealth? Shifts in the microbiome and the ecological drivers of horse chestnutbleeding canker disease. New Phytol 2017;215:737–46. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.14560 .[156] Gomes T, Pereira JA, Lino-Neto T, Bennett AE, Baptista P. Bacterial diseaseinduced changes in fungal communities of olive tree twigs depend on hostgenotype. Sci Rep 2019;9:5882. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-019-42391-8 .[157] Padhi EMT, Maharaj N, Lin S-Y, Mishchuk DO, Chin E, Godfrey K, et al.Metabolome and microbiome signatures in the roots of citrus affected byHuanglongbing. Phytopathology 2019 .[158] Denman S, Plummer S, Kirk S, Peace A, McDonald JE. Isolation studies reveal ashift in the cultivable microbiome of oak affected with Acute Oak Decline.Syst Appl Microbiol 2016;39:484–90. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.syapm.2016.07.002 .[159] Faist H, Keller A, Hentschel U, Deeken R. Grapevine ( Vitis vinifera ) crown gallshost distinct microbiota. Appl Environ Microbiol 2016;82:5542–52. doi:https://doi.org/10.1128/AEM.01131-16 .[160] Filo A, Sabbatini P, Sundin GW, Zabadal TJ, Saﬁr GR, Cousins PS. Grapevinecrown gall suppression using biological control and genetic engineering: areview of recent research. Am J Enol Vitic 2013.[161] Deyett E, Roper MC, Ruegger P, Yang J-I, Borneman J, Rolshausen PE.Microbial landscape of the grapevine endosphere in the context of Pierce’sdisease. Phytobiomes 2017:138–49 .[162] Bruez E, Haidar R, Alou MT, Vallance J, Bertsch C, Mazet F, et al. Bacteria in awood fungal disease: characterization of bacterial communities in woodtissues of esca-foliar symptomatic and asymptomatic grapevines. FrontMicrobiol 2015;6. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2015.01137.[163] Haidar R, Yacoub A, Vallance J, Compant S, Antonielli L, Saad A, et al. Bacteriaassociated with wood tissues of Esca-diseased grapevines: functionaldiversity and synergy with Fomitiporia mediterranea to degrade woodcomponents. Environ Microbiol 2021;23:6104–21. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/1462-2920.15676 .[164] Saccà ML, Manici LM, Caputo F, Frisullo S. Changes in rhizosphere bacterialcommunities associated with tree decline: grapevine esca syndrome casestudy. Can J Microbiol 2019 .[165] Darriaut R, Martins G, Dewasme C, Mary S, Darrieutort G, Ballestra P, et al.Grapevine decline is associated with difference in soil microbial compositionand activity. OENO One 2021;55. doi: https://doi.org/10.20870/oeno-one.2021.55.3.4626 .[166] Fotios B, Sotirios V, Elena P, Anastasios S, Stefanos T, Danae G, et al. Grapevinewood microbiome analysis identiﬁes key fungal pathogens and potentialinteractions with the bacterial community implicated in grapevine trunkdisease appearance. Environ Microbiome 2021;16:23. doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s40793-021-00390-1 .[167] Berendsen RL, Pieterse CMJ, Bakker PAHM. The rhizosphere microbiome andplant health. Trends Plant Sci 2012;17:478–86. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2012.04.001 .[168] Chaparro JM, Badri DV, Vivanco JM. Rhizosphere microbiome assemblage isaffected by plant development. ISME J 2014;8:790–803. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/ismej.2013.196 .[169] Hupe A, Schulz H, Bruns C, Haase T, Heß J, Joergensen RG, et al. Even ﬂow?Changes of carbon and nitrogen release from pea roots over time. Plant Soil2018 .[170] Nguyen C. Rhizodeposition of organic C by plants: mechanisms and controls.Agronomie 2003:375_396. .[171] Leisso R, Rudell D, Mazzola M. Targeted Metabolic Proﬁling Indicates AppleRootstock Genotype-Speciﬁc Differences in Primary and SecondaryMetabolite Production and Validate Quantitative Contribution FromVegetative Growth. Front Plant Sci 2018;9:1336. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2018.01336 .[172] Mwafulirwa L, Baggs EM, Russell J, George T, Morley N, Sim A, et al. Barleygenotype inﬂuences stabilization of rhizodeposition-derived C and soilorganic matter mineralization. Soil Biol Biochem 2016;95:60–9. doi:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.12.011 .[173] Bakhshandeh S, Corneo PE, Yin L, Dijkstra FA. Drought and heat stress reduceyield and alter carbon rhizodeposition of different wheat genotypes. J AgronCrop Sci 2019;205:157–67. doi: https://doi.org/10.1111/jac.12314 .[174] Preece C, Peñuelas J. Rhizodeposition under drought and consequences forsoil communities and ecosystem resilience. Plant Soil 2016;409:1–17. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-016-3090-z .[175] Van Hecke MM, Treonis AM, Kaufman JR. How does the Fungal EndophyteNeotyphodium coenophialum Affect Tall Fescue (Festuca arundinacea)Rhizodeposition and Soil Microorganisms? Plant Soil 2005;275:101–9. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-005-0380-2 .[176] Escudero N, Marhuenda-Egea FC, Ibanco-Cañete R, Zavala-Gonzalez EA,Lopez-Llorca LV. A metabolomic approach to study the rhizodeposition in thetritrophic interaction: tomato. Pochonia chlamydosporia and Meloidogynejavanica. Metabolomics 2014;10:788–804. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11306-014-0632-3 .[177] Gu Y, Wei Z, Wang X, Friman V-P, Huang J, Wang X, et al. Pathogen invasionindirectly changes the composition of soil microbiome via shifts in rootexudation proﬁle. Biol Fertil Soils 2016;52:997–1005. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-016-1136-2 .[178] Leyval C, Berthelin J. Rhizodeposition and net release of soluble organiccompounds by pine and beech seedlings inoculated with rhizobacteria andectomycorrhizal fungi. Biol Fertil Soils 1993;15:259–67. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00337210 .[179] Scheffknecht S, Mammerler R, Steinkellner S, Vierheilig H. Root exudates ofmycorrhizal tomato plants exhibit a different effect on microconidiagermination of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici than root exudatesfrom non-mycorrhizal tomato plants. Mycorrhiza 2006;16:365–70. doi:https://doi.org/10.1007/s00572-006-0048-7 .[180] Ouadi L, Bruez E, Bastien S, Yacoub A, Coppin C, Guérin-Dubrana L, et al. SapFlow Disruption in Grapevine Is the Early Signal Predicting the Structural,Functional, and Genetic Responses to Esca Disease. Front Plant Sci 2021;12:.doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2021.695846 695846.[181] Labois C, Wilhelm K, Laloue H, Tarnus C, Bertsch C, Goddard M-L, et al. WoodMetabolomic Responses of Wild and Cultivated Grapevine to Infection withNeofusicoccum parvum, a Trunk Disease Pathogen. Metabolites 2020;10:232.doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/metabo10060232 .[182] Bardgett RD, Mommer L, De Vries FT. Going underground: root traits asdrivers of ecosystem processes. Trends Ecol Evol 2014;29:692–9. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tree.2014.10.006 .[183] Fransson P, Andersson A, Norström S, Bylund D, Bent E. Ectomycorrhizalexudates and pre-exposure to elevated CO 2 affects soil bacterial growth andcommunity structure. Fungal Ecol 2016;20:211–24. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.funeco.2016.01.003 .[184] van Dam NM, Bouwmeester HJ. Metabolomics in the Rhizosphere: Tappinginto Belowground Chemical Communication. Trends Plant Sci2016;21:256–65. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2016.01.008 .[185] D’Amico F, Candela M, Turroni S, Biagi E, Brigidi P, Bega A, et al. The RootstockRegulates Microbiome Diversity in Root and Rhizosphere Compartments ofVitis vinifera Cultivar Lambrusco. Front Microbiol 2018;9:2240. doi: https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.02240 .P. Bettenfeld is a PhD student, supervised by PEC, FF and OF. She studies metabolicand taxonomic modiﬁcations of the grapevine holobiont in response to fungaldiebacks, in order to deﬁne biomarkers allowing the early detection of this dieback.She has already published a review in Trends in Plant Science with PEC, FF, OF andST.J. Cadena is a Master1 student. Her studies are about grapevine and diseasesassociated to grapevine. She was supervised by PEC and ST.L. Jacquens is an assistant engineer working with ST. She is specialist in the study ofgenes encoding proteins involved in defense reactions.O. Fernandez is lecturer at University of Reims (France). OF has studied Red-oxresponse of grapevine at the enzymatic and genetic level when associated withpathogenic fungi.F. Fontaine is Professor at University of Reims (France). FF is specialized in thestudy of physiological modiﬁcations of grapevine in a dieback context.E. van Schaik was post-doc in the team of PEC. EVS was involved in the study ofbacterial and fungal communities, and in the study of hub species when comparinggrapevine holobiont under decline conditions.P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1514P.-E. Courty is Senior Scientist at INRAE Dijon (France). PEC is developing a researchtheme focused on the role of beneﬁcial microorganisms associated with manyplants, particularly arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and growth-promoting bacteria.PEC works at different scales: from the biotrophic interface to the holobiont. PEC isspecialist of transport systems and on diversity of bacterial and fungal communi-ties. Finally, he is associate editor of several scientiﬁc journals on plant-microbeinteractions ( e.g., New Phytologist).S. Trouvelot is a lecturer at the University of Burgundy (France). ST is a specialist inthe study of grapevine physiology and immunity and its ‘‘malfunction” during theexpression of certain fungal diseases (mildew, powdery mildew, grey rot and wooddiseases). PEC and ST are leading a project on the grapevine holobiont and itsdisfunctioning. In this project, they are associated with all co-authors of thismanuscript.P. Bettenfeld, J. Cadena i Canals, L. Jacquens et al. Journal of Advanced Research 40 (2022) 1–1515