Citation: Antoszewski, M.;Mierek-Adamska, A.; D ˛ abrowska,G.B. The Importance ofMicroorganisms for SustainableAgriculture—A Review. Metabolites2022 ,12, 1100. https://doi.org/10.3390/metabo12111100Academic Editors: JolantaJaroszuk- ´Sciseł and Artur NowakReceived: 13 October 2022Accepted: 8 November 2022Published: 11 November 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).metabolitesHOH OH ReviewThe Importance of Microorganisms for SustainableAgriculture—A ReviewMarcel Antoszewski, Agnieszka Mierek-Adamska * and Gra ˙zyna B. D ˛ abrowskaDepartment of Genetics, Faculty of Biological and Veterinary Sciences, Nicolaus Copernicus University,Lwowska 1, 87-100 Toru ´ n, Poland*Correspondence: mierek_adamska@umk.pl; Tel.: +48-566114576Abstract: In the face of climate change, progressive degradation of the environment, includingagricultural land negatively affecting plant growth and development, endangers plant productivity.Seeking efﬁcient and sustainable agricultural techniques to replace agricultural chemicals is one ofthe most important challenges nowadays. The use of plant growth-promoting microorganisms isamong the most promising approaches; however, molecular mechanisms underneath plant–microbeinteractions are still poorly understood. In this review, we summarized the knowledge on plant–microbe interactions, highlighting the role of microbial and plant proteins and metabolites in theformation of symbiotic relationships. This review covers rhizosphere and phyllosphere microbiomes,the role of root exudates in plant–microorganism interactions, the functioning of the plant’s immunesystem during the plant–microorganism interactions. We also emphasized the possible role of thestringent response and the evolutionarily conserved mechanism during the established interactionbetween plants and microorganisms. As a case study, we discussed fungi belonging to the genusTrichoderma . Our review aims to summarize the existing knowledge about plant–microorganisminteractions and to highlight molecular pathways that need further investigation.Keywords: microbiome; PGPM; plant ﬁtness; bioinoculants; symbiotic interactions; Trichoderma ;stringent response; RSH genes; rhizosphere; alarmones1. IntroductionTraditional agricultural techniques, such as chemical fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides,and herbicides, enable the protection of crop plants against pathogens and ensure betteryield. Chemical compounds present in agricultural chemicals are harmful to the environ-ment and cause soil, atmosphere, and water pollution [ 1]. These compounds are the reasonfor the extinction of ﬁsh [ 2], bees [ 3], and plants [ 4,5], and pose a threat to the biodiversityof soil bacterial [ 6–8] and fungal communities [ 9]. Chemical plant protection productsnegatively affect agricultural soils, i.e., they change soil physical properties, (e.g., texture,permeability, porosity), they disturb the cycle of the elements, such as phosphorus andnitrogen, and they decrease the complexity of soil microbiome [ 10]. In the face of a growingworld population and increased demand for food both in terms of food quantity and foodquality, the usage of bioinoculants, i.e., biofertilizers to increase the yield and biopesticidesto protect plants, is the future of agriculture. Bioinoculants comprised of living or dormantmicrobes that are able to promote plant growth and development are called PGPM (plantgrowth-promoting microorganisms) and have great potential not only for enhancing plantyield but also for remediation of degraded soils [ 11–13]. Bioinoculants are cost-effectiveand environmental-friendly approaches in agriculture [ 14]. The ﬁrst step in a bioinoculantformulation is the isolation and identiﬁcation of a microbe. The further potential of a partic-ular microorganism for plant growth promotion needs to be veriﬁed, and this ability shouldbe conﬁrmed in laboratory and ﬁeld conditions. Moreover, potential risks to other organ-isms, such as animals and natural soil microbiomes, should be also determined [ 15]. TheMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100. https://doi.org/10.3390/metabo12111100 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/metabolitesMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 2 of 47best-known examples of PGPM are mycorrhizal fungi and bacteria belonging to Rhizobium ;however, plant growth-promoting microorganisms are found among varied taxa of bacteria,fungi, and algae [16]. In Table 1, several examples of PGPM are shown.Table 1. Examples of plant growth-promoting microorganisms. The effect of PGPM on plants and, ifknown, the mode of action of microorganisms is also included.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesBacteriaAcinetobacter sp. RG30,Pseudomonas putida GN04Zea maysPlant:- increased tolerance to Cu- enhanced chlorophyll content- increased Cu concentration in tissuesBacteria:- IAA synthesis- production of siderophores- solubilization of Cu and P[17]Acinetobacter sp. RSC9 Saccharum sp.Plant:- under salt stress enhanced number of leaves, fresh, dryweight, and germination ratioBacteria:- IAA production- P , K, and Zn solubilization- N2assimilation[18]Agrobacterium sp. 10C2 Phaseolus vulgaris- increased nodule formation- higher plant biomass- enhanced content of P , polyphenols, and ﬂavonoidsin grains- changes in the structure of the microbial community[19]Arthrobacter globiformisZea mays,Triticum aestivumPlant:- enhanced biomass, uptake of Fe and P , and higherchlorophyll content under iron-stressBacteria:- siderophores production[20]Arthrobacter sp.,Bacillus megateriumLycopersicon esculentum- enhanced seed germination ratio, seedling length, anddry and fresh weight under salt stress[21]Azospirillum brasilense Cicer arietinum- increased resistance to Ascochyta rabiei via induction ofplant defense-related genes ( Snakin2 and DEF0422 )[22]Azospirillum lipoferum Triticum aestivum- improved germination, plant growth, higher chlorophyllcontent, and improved membrane stability undersalt stress- increased production of SOD and osmolytes, i.e., proline,soluble protein, and sugars under salt stress[23]Azotobacter spp. Zea maysPlant:- increased shoot dry weight, chlorophyll content, and N,P , Fe concentration under drought stressBacteria:- production of siderophores[24]Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Zea mays- increased tolerance to salt stress, enhanced content ofchlorophyll, soluble sugars, and glutathione, higherperoxidase/catalase activity[25]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 3 of 47Table 1. Cont.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesBradyrhizobium sp.,Rhizobium leguminosarum,Azotobacter sp.Gossypium hirsutumPlant:- increased rate of seedling emergence, biomass, andN uptakeBacteria:- IAA production[26]Burkholderia phytoﬁrmansPsJNTriticum aestivum- improved water content and CO 2assimilation rate,water use efﬁciency, chlorophyll content, and higher yieldunder drought stress- improved ionic balance, antioxidant levels, higher N, P ,K, and protein content in grains[27]Burkholderia tropicaLycopersicumesculentumPlant:- increased yieldBacteria:- N-ﬁxation and P solubilization[28]Enterobacter cloacae Spinacia oleracea - protection against Fusarium wilt ( Fusarium oxysporum ) [29]Frankia spp.Casuarina glauca,Casuarina equisetifolia- salt stress alleviation, higher dry biomass, chlorophyll,and proline content[30]Methylobacterium sp. 2AArabidopsis thaliana,Solanum tuberosumPlant:- the alleviation of salt stress of A. thaliana , with higherlateral roots density, number of leaves, and largerrosette diameter- reduced necrotic lesions and chlorosis in S. tuberosuminfected with P . infestansBacteria:- production of IAA, P solubilization, biocontrol activityagainst Phytophtora infestans ,Botrytis cinerea, andFuasrium gramiearum[31]Pseudomonas putida Lycopersicum esculentumPlant:- increased plant height, stem diameter, radical volume,dry biomass, and fruit yieldBacteria:- production of IAA[32]Pseudomonas sp. DW1 Solanum melongena- salt stress ameliorating effect, with increased dry weight,and seed germination- higher SOD activity in leaves[33]Pseudomonas stutzeriISE12Brassica napus- enhanced growth under salt stress, with a decrease innon-enzymatic antioxidants accumulation- improved seed germination ratio, number of leaves,chlorophyll content, and dry weight[34]Rhizobium leguminosarum,Rhizobium sp.,Bradyrhizobium sp.Oryza sativaPlant:- increased yield and uptake of N, P , K, and Fe- improved seed vigor, dry biomass, and leaf area withfaster seedling emergenceBacteria:- production of IAA[35,36]Serratia marcescens Solanum melongena- salt stress alleviation, decreased Na+/Cl- content inleaves, lower lipid peroxidation level, and higher activityof antioxidant enzymes- enhanced biomass, longer stems, and bigger leaf area[37]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 4 of 47Table 1. Cont.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesSerratia proteamaculans,Pseudomonas putida,Pseudomonas aeruginosaTriticum aestivumPlant:- salt stress alleviation with enhanced plant height, rootlength, and yield, and higher chlorophyll contentBacteria:- ACC deaminase production[23]Streptomyces sp.Arabidopsis thaliana,Lycopersicon esculentumPlant:- salt stress alleviation with increased biomass, chlorophyllcontent, and decreased proline contentBacteria:- production of IAA, ACC deaminase, P , and NaClsolubilization[38]Streptomyces sp. Medicago sativa- protection against root-lesion nematode(Pratylenchus penetrans )[39]FungiAlternaria solani IA300 Capsicum annum- enhanced number of leaves, ﬂowers, dry, andfresh weight[40]Apergillus niger 9-p Phasoleus vulgarisPlant:- increased biomassFungus:- production of IAA, ACC deaminase, siderophores,protease, amylase, pectinase, xylanase, andP solubilization[41]Aspergillus fumigatus Glycine maxPlant:- salt stress alleviation with enhanced biomass, leaf area,chlorophyll content, and photosynthetic rate- increased isoﬂavones, proline, SA, and JA content andlower ABA contentFungus:- GAs production (GA4, GA9, GA12)[42]Collybia tuberosa,Clitocybe sp.,Laccarialaccata, Hebelomamesophaeum, Cyathus ollaBrassica napusPlant:- enhanced root and shoot growth, number of leaves,and biomassFungi:- production of IAA[43]Funneliformis mosseae,Ensifer melilotiVitis vinifera- enhanced plant height and dry weight- higher VOCs content in roots[44]Fusarium equiseti,Glomus mosseaeCucumis sativus- protection against anthracnose ( Colletotrichum orbiculare )and damping off ( Rhizoctonia solani )- enhanced shoot dry weight[45]Fusarium verticillioides,Humicola sp.Glycine max- salt stress alleviation with increased shoot length,protein content, carotenoid, salicylic acid (SA), andenhanced SOD activity- decreased ABA level and lipid peroxidation level[46]Glomus intraradices,Glomus mosseaeOlea europaea- enhanced yield, dry weight, height, stem diameter, androot length[47]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 5 of 47Table 1. Cont.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesLecanicillium psalliotae Elettaria cardamomumPlant:- enhanced shoot and root length, biomass, and numberof leaves- higher chlorophyll contentFungus:- production of IAA, ammonia, siderophores, and cell-walldegrading enzymes- P and Zn solubilization[48]Mortierella antarctica,Mortierella. VerticillataTriticum aestivumPlant:- enhanced fresh weightFungi:- production of IAA, GA, and ACC deaminase[49]Mucor sp. Arabidopsis arenosa- heavy metal (Zn, Cd, Fe, Pb) stress alleviation withenhanced biomass, root hair growth, improved water, andP content- upregulation of genes involved in nutrient acquisition(HRS1, SPX1, MGD2 ), and metal homeostasis ( MTP A2,ZIP7, IREG2 ,IRT2 )[50]Penicillium bilaii Pisum sativum- increased root dry weight, length, and P content inthe shoot[51]Penicillium sp.,Penicillium radicum,Penicillium bilaiaeMedicago lupulina,Lens culinaris,Triticum aestivum- enhanced shoot growth and dry weight, and increasedP uptake[52]Phoma sp.Cucumis sativus,Arabidopsis thaliana- protection against cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) via ISR- higher number of leaves, increased fresh/dry weight,and the yield of cucumber[53]Phoma spp.,Trichoderma asperellum,Fusarium equiseti,Penicillium simplicissmumAllium cepa- protection against white rot disease(Sclerotium cepivorum ) with enhanced plant height, dryweight, and bulb perimeter- enhanced levels of peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase- upregulation of plant defense genes ( PR1,PR2)[54]Purpureocillium lilacinum,Purpureocillium lavendulum,Metarhizium marquandiiZea mays,Phaseolus vulgaris,Glycine maxPlant:- enhanced plant height and biomass and N content inroots ( Z. mays ) and P in shoots ( P . vulgaris )Fungi:- P solubilization and IAA production[55]Trichoderma hamatum,Trichoderma harzianum,Trichoderma virideFreesia refracta- accelerated ﬂowering and enhanced development oflateral inﬂorescence shoots- increased K, Fe, Mn, and Zn uptake[56]Trichoderma harzianum Curcuma longaPlant:- enhanced plant height and yieldFungi:- biocontrol activity against rhizome rot and leaf blight(Pythium aphanidermatum ,Rhizoctonia solani )- production of IAA, HCN, cellulase, and P solubilization[57]Trichoderma phayaoense Cucumis meloPlant:- enhanced plant development, biomass, and fruit yieldFungus:- biocontrol activity against gummy stem blight pathogens(Stagonosporopsis cucurbitacearum ,Fusarium equiseti )[58]Trichoderma viride Brassica napus- enhanced biomass, lateral roots development, andgermination ratio- changes in microbial composition[59]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 6 of 47Table 1. Cont.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesAlgaeAnabaena oryzae,Anabaena doliolum,Phormidium fragile,Calothrix geitonos,Hapalosiphon intricatus,Aulosira ferilissima,Tolypothrix tenuis,Oscillatoria acuta,Plectonema boryanumOryza sativa- enhanced shoot and root length and biomass- improved protein, phenolics, ﬂavonoids, andchlorophyll content- a higher activity of enzymes (peroxidase, phenylalanine,and ammonia lyase)- elevated levels of IAA, and IBA[60]Anabaena variabilis,Anabaena laxaLycopersicon esculentum- protection against Fusarium wilt ( F. oxysporum ) withsigniﬁcant enhancement of growth, yield, and fruit quality- increased N, P , and Zn concentration- increased activity of defense enzymes (phenylalanineammonia-lyase, polyphenol oxidase), increased activity ofchitosanase, and -1,3-glucanase[61]Calothrix elenkinii Oryza sativa- enhanced root/shoot length and fresh weight- improved chlorophyll and IAA content- higher nitrogenase and CMCase activity- 10-fold increase in microbiome population abundance[62]Calothrix sp.,A. laxa ,Anabaena torulosa,Anabaena azollae,Anabaena oscillarioidesTriticum aestivum- enhanced biomass- nitrogen-ﬁxing potential- higher endoglucanase activity[63]Chlorella fusca Cucumis sativus- protection against anthracnose ( Colletotrichum orbiculare )via the induction of SAR[64]Chlorella oocystoides,Chlorella minutissimaZea mays- enhanced chlorophyll, P , and K content- improved biomass[65]Chlorella vulgaris Telfairia occidentalis- enhanced germination ratio- higher number of leaves and yield- improved chlorophyll, carbohydrates, proteins, andlipid content[66]Microcystis aeruginsa Oryza sativa- heavy metal (Cd) stress alleviation with decreased Cdaccumulation, increased translocation of Cd from root toshoot, and enhanced dry weight[67]Nostoc sp.Triticum aestivum,Oryza sativaPlant:- enhanced biomass and shoot/root lengthAlgae:- production of IAA and zeatin[68]Nostoc sp. Zea mays- enhanced dry mass- higher N content- production of exopolysaccharide[69]Scenedesmus quadricauda,Chlorella vulgarisLycopersicon esculentum - enhanced biomass and root length [70]Spirulina platensis Zea mays- cadmium stress alleviation with improvedphotosynthetic electron ﬂows and increasednon-photochemical quenching- enhanced seed germination, shoot length, root freshweight, and bigger leaf area- decreased Cd accumulation in shoot[71]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 7 of 47Table 1. Cont.PGPM Plant Remarks ReferencesMixed inoculantsAnabaena ssp., Calothrix sp.,Providencia sp.Triticum aestivum- enhanced yield and Fe, Cu, Zn, Mn, and protein contentof grains[72]Glomus fasciculatum,Bacillus subtilisTagetes erecta- enhanced ﬂowering, with improved fresh weight andcolor of ﬂowers[73]Klebsiella variicola,Glomus multisubtensum,Rhizophagus intraradicesHelianthus tuberosusPlant:- enhanced biomass, yield, plant height, and leaf area- increased content of inulin in tubersMicrobes:- P solubilization and IAA production[74]Mesorhizobium mediterraneum,Rhizophagus irregulariCicer arietinum- enhanced yield and protein content of grain under waterdeﬁcit conditions[75]Rhizophagus intraradices,Glomus aggregatum,Glomus viscosum,Claroideoglomus etunicatum,Claroideoglomus claroideum,Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens,Linum usitatissimumSolanum lycopersicum- enhanced ﬂower and fruit production, with increasedlycopene, vitamins, sugars, and citric acid content ofthe fruits[76]Rhizophagus intraradices,Pseudomonas sp.,Bacillus sp.Sulla carnosaPlant:- enhanced biomass, stomatal conductance, photosyntheticpigment content, and photosynthesis rate under salt stress- increased proline content and higher activity ofantioxidative enzymesMicrobes:- production of IAA[77]Septoglomus constrictum,Diversispora aunantia,Archaeospora trappei,Glomus versiforme,Paraglomus ocultum,Bacillus thuringiensisLavandula dentataPlant:- increased biomass under drought stress conditions,enhanced activity of the enzymatic antioxidant system,and enhanced nutrient uptakeMicrobes:- P solubilization, production of IAA, and ACC deaminase[78]Trichoderma harzianum,Glomus spp.,Pseudomonas ﬂuorescensCapsicum annuum- enhanced yield, higher activity of antioxidative, anddefense enzymes[79]One of the major drawbacks of the application of bioinoculants is the fact that thenumber of bioinoculants tested in laboratory/greenhouse conditions fail in the ﬁeld trials.This is mostly because microbes introduced to the environment have to compete for aniche with native microorganisms in order to attain sufﬁcient abundance. The abilityof introduced microbes to survive and thrive is variable and signiﬁcantly depends onenvironmental conditions including temperature, rainfall, and soil type, as well as oninteractions with the host plant and other organisms. A good example of this dependenceis the ﬁeld trial that showed that the promotion of plant growth by subtropical strains ofAzotobacter chroococcum and Azospirillum brasilense was observed only when used in thesame type of climate and not in the alpine region with a temperate climate [ 80]. Moreover,it was demonstrated that the high biodiversity of the native soil microbiome has a negativeimpact on the survivability of applied bioinoculants, i.e., there is a negative correlationbetween the diversity of the soil microbes and the survival rate of the introduced strain [ 81].Therefore, when the native microbiome biodiversity is low, the chance for a new strainto thrive is higher which corresponds with better availability of nutrients and reducedcompetition among microorganisms for niche [ 82–84]. Moreover, several studies showedMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 8 of 47that PGPM that promotes the growth of a particular plant species might not be beneﬁcial forother species of plants. For example, fungi belonging to Penicillium sp. and Trichoderma sp.showed diversiﬁed effectiveness in enhancing the growth of varied wheat ( Triticum aestivumL.) cultivars [ 85]. Similarly, the effect of inoculation of winter and spring varieties ofoilseed rape ( Brassica napus L.) with different strains of PGPM on the germination rateand growth of seedlings depended on the plant variety [ 86]. On the other hand, differentstrains of the same microbial species might differ signiﬁcantly in their ability to promoteplant growth and development. For example, Znajewska et al. [ 59] showed that sevenTrichoderma viride isolates had various effects on winter rapeseed germination and growthpromotion depending on the used strain.Microorganisms colonize not only roots but also other plant tissues and organs in-cluding stems, leaves, ﬂowers, seeds, and fruits. The aerial part of plants colonized bymicrobes is called the phyllosphere, whereas the rhizosphere is the soil adjacent to theroot [ 87]. In contrast to the rhizosphere, the above-ground parts of plants are scarce inwater and nutrients. Only a small number of microorganisms that reach the surface of theplant will land on beneﬁcial spots and will have conditions to survive [ 88]. As a conse-quence, the number of microorganisms living in the rhizosphere is much higher than in thephyllosphere. Microbes are present at every stage of plant development, from seed to fullydeveloped plant producing a new generation of seeds [ 89]. Some microorganisms live onthe surfaces of plant organs, i.e., epiphytes whereas others are able to colonize the internaltissues of plants, i.e., endophytes [90,91].Plant growth-promoting microorganisms stimulate plant growth and developmentthrough various direct and indirect mechanisms (Figure 1, Table 1). Production of phyto-hormones [ 92,93], nitrogen assimilation [ 94], solubilization, and mineralization of macro-and micro-elements [ 95,96], and modulation of the endogenous level of ethylene in plantstissues [ 97] are examples of direct mechanisms. Examples of indirect mechanisms areinhibition of pathogens growth through antibiosis [ 98], secretion of lytic enzymes [ 99], andcompetition, e.g., via siderophores production [ 100], induction/inhibition of plant genesexpression [ 101], induction of plant immune response [ 102], and manipulation of plantmicrobiome composition [ 103]. This work aims to summarize the current knowledge aboutthe interactions of plants with beneﬁcial microbes, and how those interactions affect theoverall health of the plant. For further development of environmental-friendly methods ofplant cultivation, is it crucial to deeply understand the molecular mechanisms underneath(i) the recruitment of useful microbes by plants, (ii) the interactions among microorganisms,and (iii) the plant-microorganism interplay. The interactions between plants and microor-ganisms can be divided into three types, i.e., interactions are either neutral, negative, orpositive in their effects on the host plant. This review focuses exclusively on positiveinteractions and mechanisms underneath those interactions. In this work, we also discussthe role of stringent responses in interactions between plants and microorganisms.Metabolites 2022 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW  9 of 47    Figure 1. Multidimensional network of interactions between plant s and PGPM, between plant s and pathogens, and between PGPM and pathogens.  2. Rhizosphere and Root Exudates  The rhizosphere is defined as “the field of action or influence of a root” , i.e., it is soil adjacent to the roots which are influenced by root exudates that are the mixture of several compounds produced and secreted by roots [104] . The m ain components of root exudates are water, enzymes, amino acids, nucleotides, vitamins, organic aci ds, fatty acids, sugars, phenolic compounds, anions, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), polysaccharides, and proteins [105–112]. The composition of exudates varies depending on the plant species, and even phenotype ; it changes during plant development [107,113]  and it is dependent on environmental conditions, such as temperature [114] , light [115] , the amount of nutri-ents [116–119], and stress factors [120–122]. Moreover , the type and composition of soil can also affect the composition of root exudates [123]. For instance, plant s that grow in soil deprived of nitrogen probably do not secrete extra amino acids or proteins to the rhi-zosphere [119] . Root exudates are also an important source of elements present in the soil. It was estimated that about 10 –44% of  carbon compounds [124]  and about 10 –16% of ni-trogen compounds [125]  synthetized by the plant is secreted to the rhizosphere. In leg-umes, the rhizodeposition of nitrogen is estimated between 4% and 70%, depending on the plant species [126] .  The r hizosphere is the hotspot of plant –microorganism interactions. Interactions be-tween those organisms have a direct influence on the availability of soil nutrients for plants [95,127–130] and on plant tolerance toward biotic and abiotic stresses [131–135]. Exudates are a rich source of carbon and other nutrients and , therefore , the abundance of microorganisms in the rhizosphere can be up to a hundred times greater than in the bulk soil [136] . Moreover, root exudates allow plants to communicate with rhizospher e micro-organisms and affect their behavior through the secretion of various signaling molecules [137–140]. For instance, barley ( Hordeum vulgare  L.) in response to infection by the fungus Pythium ultimum , secretes increased amounts of organic and phenolic acids, which acti-vates the expression of the phlA  gene in the endophytic bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens  Figure 1. Multidimensional network of interactions between plants and PGPM, between plants andpathogens, and between PGPM and pathogens.Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 9 of 472. Rhizosphere and Root ExudatesThe rhizosphere is deﬁned as “the ﬁeld of action or inﬂuence of a root”, i.e., it is soiladjacent to the roots which are inﬂuenced by root exudates that are the mixture of severalcompounds produced and secreted by roots [ 104]. The main components of root exudatesare water, enzymes, amino acids, nucleotides, vitamins, organic acids, fatty acids, sugars,phenolic compounds, anions, volatile organic compounds (VOCs), polysaccharides, andproteins [ 105–112]. The composition of exudates varies depending on the plant species,and even phenotype; it changes during plant development [ 107,113] and it is dependenton environmental conditions, such as temperature [ 114], light [ 115], the amount of nutri-ents [ 116–119], and stress factors [ 120–122]. Moreover, the type and composition of soilcan also affect the composition of root exudates [ 123]. For instance, plants that grow insoil deprived of nitrogen probably do not secrete extra amino acids or proteins to therhizosphere [ 119]. Root exudates are also an important source of elements present in thesoil. It was estimated that about 10–44% of carbon compounds [ 124] and about 10–16%of nitrogen compounds [ 125] synthetized by the plant is secreted to the rhizosphere. Inlegumes, the rhizodeposition of nitrogen is estimated between 4% and 70%, depending onthe plant species [126].The rhizosphere is the hotspot of plant–microorganism interactions. Interactionsbetween those organisms have a direct inﬂuence on the availability of soil nutrients forplants [ 95,127–130] and on plant tolerance toward biotic and abiotic stresses [ 131–135]. Ex-udates are a rich source of carbon and other nutrients and, therefore, the abundanceof microorganisms in the rhizosphere can be up to a hundred times greater than inthe bulk soil [ 136]. Moreover, root exudates allow plants to communicate with rhizo-sphere microorganisms and affect their behavior through the secretion of various signal-ingmolecules [137–140]. For instance, barley ( Hordeum vulgare L.) in response to infec-tion by the fungus Pythium ultimum, secretes increased amounts of organic and pheno-lic acids, which activates the expression of the phlA gene in the endophytic bacteriumPseudomonas ﬂuorescens CHA0. Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA synthase encoded by the phlAgene is involved in the synthesis of DAPG (1,4-diacetylphloroglucinol) that has antifungalactivity [ 98]. Zhang et al. [ 141] demonstrated the role of organic acids in root exudates ofcucumber ( Cucumis sativus L.) and banana ( Musa acuminata Colla). The citric acid presentin cucumber root exudates attracted Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (isolated from cucumberrhizosphere) and B. subtilis (isolated from banana rhizosphere). Moreover, it induced theformation of the B. amyloliquefaciens bioﬁlm. Fumaric acid present in banana root exudatespromoted bioﬁlm formation of both tested strains. Bioﬁlm is a coherent multicellularstructure embedded in a self-produced extracellular matrix that can be formed on thesurface of plant organs. Members of bioﬁlm are better protected from environmentalfactors; their nutritional status is enhanced and, therefore, the survival rate of membersof bioﬁlm is much higher than that of single bacteria cells, as reviewed in [ 142]. Anotherexample of a molecule allowing plant–PGPM communication is polyamines present in rootexudates, which inform rhizospheric microorganisms about the presence of a potential hostplant [ 143]. For instance, putrescine and its precursor arginine attract Pseudomonas sp. andtrigger a lifestyle change, promoting attachment to the root and formation of bioﬁlm [ 144].However, the best-known example is the mechanism of communication between Rhizobiumand legumes. Flavonoids secreted by plants activate bacterial nodgenes lead to secretionby bacteria of the nod factor. The nod factor promotes the formation of nitrogen-ﬁxingnodules in roots [145,146].Root exudates serve as a chemoattractant, by which plants “recruit” microorganisms(Figure 1). Several studies showed that the composition of root exudates has an enormouseffect on the composition of plant microbiome [ 147–152]. The composition of root exu-dates is speciﬁc for each plant species, which enables plants to attract a particular set ofmicrobes [ 153]. Moreover, plants can secrete substrates that are available only for selectedmicrobial groups or compounds that are toxic for certain groups of microorganisms in orderto inhibit their growth [ 154]. A prominent example is the amino acid canavanine, whichMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 10 of 47is present in seeds and root exudates of legumes. Canavanine is toxic to a number of soilbacteria excluding rhizobia which possess the msiA gene encoding canavanine exporter thatwarrants canavanine resistance [ 155]. Mardani-Korrani et al. [ 156] demonstrated that cana-vanine is secreted by Vicia villosa Roth, signiﬁcantly decreased the diversity and changedthe composition of microbial communities in soil. The presence of canavanine caused anincrease in the abundance of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria and decreased the number ofProteobacteria and Acidobacteria. Another example of the selective action of compoundspresent in root exudates is coumarin secreted by Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. Coumarinselectively inhibits the proliferation of some pathogenic fungi, stimulates the growth ofsome Pseudomonas spp. and other microbes that belong to the PGPM group, and increasesthe bioavailability of iron by ferric ions reduction [ 157]. Coumarins are used by plants toincrease the bioavailability of iron. Coumarins, such as scopoletin and esculetin, enable themobilization of Fe from minerals in acidic and alkalic soil [ 158]. Moreover, the depletionof Fe in soils enhances the biosynthesis and secretion of coumarins in A. thaliana [157].It is also worth noting that fungi also produce and secrete exudates that might affectother rhizosphere microorganisms. An interesting observation was made by Toljanderet al. [ 159], who showed that arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) affect the compositionof bacterial community through mycelia exudates. Analysis of exudates produced byGlomus sp. showed that the main components are water, low molecular weight sugars, andorganic acids. Moreover, it was shown that Glomus exudates inhibited the growth of severalbacterial strains including opportunistic pathogens Flavobacterium spp. and increased theabundance of bacteria belonging to Gammaproteobacteria.Root exudates are usually secreted without energy, mostly through diffusion, ionicchannel, and vesicle transport. Among several transporters involved in the secretion ofexudates by roots are ABC (ATP-binding cassette) transporters which transport lipidsand ﬂavonoids [ 160], and anion channels are involved in secreting carbohydrates [ 161].Moreover, for the secretion of root exudates transmembrane proteins aquaporins (AQPs)that are related to the membrane reﬂection coefﬁcient and root hydraulic conductivityseem to be of great importance, as reviewed in [ 162]. Aquaporins are present in endoge-nous and exogenous membranes of eukaryotes and prokaryotes and are responsible forsymplastic transport of not only water but also low molecular weight compounds andnon-charged molecules including urea, glycerol, hydrogen peroxide, ammonium ions,and some elements, e.g., silicon and boron, as reviewed in [ 163]. Interestingly, it wasdemonstrated that during ectomycorrhiza formation the expression of fungi Laccaria bicoloraquaporins signiﬁcantly increased. Moreover, fungal aquaporins exhibit high permeabilityfor NH 3and, therefore, it was suggested that they are involved in the transfer of this com-pound from fungal cytoplasm to plant [ 164].Glycine max L. noduline 26 aquaglyceroporin(GmNod26) is located in the symbiosome membrane in N 2-ﬁxing nodules and is a trans-porter of ammonia. The C-terminal domain of GmNod26 interacts with the main ammoniaassimilatory enzyme, i.e., glutamine synthetase, and this probably supports the effectiveassimilation of ﬁxed nitrogen [ 165,166]. The potential of root exudates to determine thecomposition of the rhizosphere microbiome is also important for the biodegradation ofvarious soil pollutants. Environmental pollution is a serious global challenge and needsurgent development of effective methods of remediation. An interesting observation waspresented by Janczak et al. [ 167,168] who showed that the presence of plants had a positiveeffect on bacterial, (i.e., Arthrobacter sulfonivorans, and Serratia plymuthica ), and fungal,(i.e., Clitocybe sp. and Laccaria laccata ), ability to degrade polymers including polylactide(PLA) and poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET). The effectiveness of biodegradation alsosigniﬁcantly depended on the species, i.e., the presence of Salix viminalis L. (willow) en-hanced the level of biodegradation more signiﬁcantly that the presence of B. napus andMiscanthus xgiganteus J.M.Greef, Deuter ex Hodk., Renvoize (giant miscanthus). It wassuggested that root exudates probably support the growth of microorganisms and/or rootexudates can activate microbial genes involved in the biodegradation of plastics, such asintra- and extra-cellular depolymerases. The breakdown of long polymers into oligo-, di-,Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 11 of 47and mono-mers enables uptake of those molecules by a bacterial cell which can be thenutilized as a carbon and/or energy source [ 169]. Afzal et al. [ 170] reported that inoculationof Italian ryegrass ( Lolium multiﬂorum Lam.) and birdsfoot trefoil ( Lotus corniculatus L.) withalkane-degrading bacteria Pantoea ssp. and Pseudomonas sp. separately or in consortiumresulted in higher biomass production by plants and bacterial consortium showed higherdegradation ratio in comparison to single strain inoculants. The ability of these bacteriato degrade alkane was linked to the presence of genes encoding cytochrome p450 alkanehydroxylase (CYP153) and alkane monooxygenase ( alkB).Enterobacter ludwigii possessingthe CYP153 gene was able to degrade diesel fuel [ 171]. On the other hand, it was shown thatthe level of degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon was reduced in the presence ofryegrass ( Lolium perenne L.) root exudates [ 172] which suggest that plants might differ intheir potential to enhance bioremediation potential of soil microorganisms. The PGPM areable to degrade various other compounds of different origins as a means for the promotionof plant growth and development. Allelochemical compounds secreted by plants can hinderthe cultivation of other plant species in cropping systems. Trichoderma harzianum SQR-T037was shown to degrade allelochemicals secreted by cucumber roots (4-hydroxybenzoicacid, vanillic acid, ferulic acid, benzoic acid, 3-phenylpropionic acid, and cinnamic acid).The use of strains able to biodegrade allelochemicals can ameliorate allelopathic stress incontinuous cropping systems [ 173]. Among common soil contaminants, plant protectionagents are of special interest since their persistence in the agricultural soil is high, and theirconcentration may increase with each application. Diuron, a phenylurea herbicide, has amean half-life of 330 days. Inoculation of soil containing diuron with fungal endophyteNeurospora intermedia leads to degradation of 99% of diuron in the soil after 3 days. More-over, the authors reported that this strain is able to degrade other phenylurea herbicides,e.g., fenuron, monuron, isoproturon, chlorbromuron, and chlortoluron [ 174]. Althoughorganophosphorus pesticides are perceived as non-persistent, they are highly toxic fora wide variety of non-target organisms, including mammals and rhizospheric microbes.Tested strains of T. harzianum and Metarhizium anisopliae showed an ability to degrade anumber of organophosphorus pesticides such as diazinon, profenofos, and malathion in atemperature range of 20–45C [175].3. Microbiome and HolobiontPlants provide a multitude of ecological niches for various organisms to thrive.All these organisms including bacteria, fungi, protists, and nematodes that live on thesurface and inside tissues/organs of a certain plant form the plant microbiome [ 176].Although each member of the microbiome might contain genes related to the promo-tion of plant growth and development, the expression of those genes is dependent onthe composition of the whole microbiome, on the population dynamics of potentialpathogens, and on environmental conditions [ 177]. For example, the consortium of six bac-teria ( Arthrobacter nitroguajacolicus ,Bacillus cereus ,Bacillus megaterium ,Bacillus mojavensis ,Pseudomonas azotoformans , and Pseudomonas frederiksbergensis ) was much more effective inthe protection of Nicotiana attenuata Torr. ex S.Watson (coyote tobacco) against fungalpathogens Fusarium sp. and Alternaria sp. than individual members of the consortium [ 178].Analysis of P . ﬂuorescens transcriptome in response to the presence of bacteria belong-ing to three different genera revealed signiﬁcant differences in the transcription responseofP . ﬂuorescens to different competitors [ 179]. Moreover, another layer of microbiomecomplexity is added by the presence of microbial symbionts of the members of the plantmicrobiome. For example, plant-associated fungi are in symbiosis with bacteria, i.e.,endofungal/endohyphal bacteria [ 180]. Interestingly, it was shown that endohyphal bac-teria Luteibacter sp. signiﬁcantly increases the production of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)in fungi Pestalotiopsis sp. However, Luteibacter sp. is not able to synthesize IAA [ 181].Viruses can also interact with the plant microbiome. Dichanthelium lanuginosum (Elliott)Gould (panic grass) grows in geothermal areas in consortium with its endophytic fungusCurvularia protuberata . When the fungus is infected with Curvularia thermal tolerance virusMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 12 of 47(CThTV), soil temperature tolerance of panic grass increases from 40C to 65C [182,183].Those results clearly show that other microorganisms present in soil strongly affect thePGPM potential to promote plant growth and development.Although plants recruit a number of diverse microorganisms, they show prefer-ences toward speciﬁc bacteria species. Analysis of seeds of medicinal plant red sage(Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge) collected at different locations revealed that there are no signif-icant differences in the composition of the microbiome, whereas different plant speciescollected at the same location had signiﬁcantly different microbiomes. This indicatesthat different species of plants exhibit a preference for speciﬁc groups of microorgan-isms [ 184]. Redford et al. [ 185] demonstrated the structure of microbial communitiespresent on Pinus ponderosa Dougl. Ex C. Lawson needles are very similar regardless ofgeographic location. However, there are also examples of substantial differences in the mi-crobiome of different cultivars of one plant species described in the literature. For example,Germida et al. [ 186] showed that root microbiomes of modern and older wheat cultivarswere signiﬁcantly different. Moreover, some microorganisms interact only with single plantspecies. For instance, a number of ectomycorrhizal fungi form mycorrhiza only with onespecies of a tree, e.g., Suillus grevillei and larch ( Larix sp.) (as reviewed in [ 187]). Species ofPinaceae are the only hosts for the fungal genus Rhizopogon [188]. The most known exampleis the highly specialized relationship between legumes and rhizobia [ 189]. Wicaksonoet al. [ 190], by studying bog ecosystems, found that microbiomes of vascular plants areless diversiﬁed than those of non-vascular plants including bryophytes. Speciﬁcity be-tween host and microbes seems to be a plastic trait modulated by the environment [ 191].The mechanisms underneath the preferences of the host plant toward a speciﬁc set ofmicroorganisms are not well understood, but recently Salas-Gonz ález et al. [ 192] showedthat mechanisms involved in the maintenance of plant mineral nutrient homeostasis alsocontribute to microbiome assembly.The composition of the plant microbiome is largely dependent on the phase of plantgrowth and development. The mature seed is colonized by microorganisms that wereassociated with the mother plant, (i.e., microbes were transferred vertically), and thosemicroorganisms are the ﬁrst members of the microbiome of a newly emerging plant [ 193].During germination, microbes transferred vertically have an advantage in plant coloniza-tion over the microorganisms present in the soil. During plant development, new symbioticmicroorganisms transferred horizontally, (i.e., from the soil), appear [ 136,194]. Interestingly,it was demonstrated that microbes transferred vertically usually inhabit the phyllosphere,while the rhizosphere and root are colonized by the microorganisms from the soil. Astudy on oak ( Quercus robur L.) microbial inheritance showed that microbial compositionof the phyllosphere was very similar to the composition of the embryo [ 195]. Sánchez-López et al. [ 196] showed that seed endophyte Methylobacterium sp. Cp3 was transferredvia seeds across three generations of the plant Crotalaria pumila Ortega. Moreover, whenMethylobacterium sp. Cp3 was inoculated to the soil at the time of C. pumila , ﬂoweringmigration of bacteria from soil to seeds was observed. Moreover, the microbiome stronglydiffers among plant organs and tissues, i.e., the surface of the leaf is colonized by differentmicroorganisms in comparison to the rhizosphere microbes [ 177]. A study on native andcultivated Agave species showed differences in bacterial taxa colonizing the rhizosphere,the phyllosphere, and the leaf and root endosphere. Interestingly, a composition of thefungal microbiome was affected mainly by the host plant biogeography [ 197]. Zarraon-aindia et al. [ 198] demonstrated that below- and above-ground microbial communitiesof grapevine ( Vitis vinifera L.) were signiﬁcantly different. Moreover, the composition ofmicrobiomes of leaves, grapes, and ﬂowers was more similar to the composition of soilmicrobiomes than to each other. Similarly, in sugarcane ( Saccharum sp.), clear differencesin microbial taxa between organ types were observed. Interestingly, the microbiome com-position of the young shoots formed from the underground ratoon was very similar tothe microbiome of roots [ 199]. The phyllosphere is a hostile and dynamic environment.Microbes present on plant above-ground surfaces are subjected to irregular nutrient avail-Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 13 of 47ability and changeable environmental conditions. The phyllosphere microbiome seems tobe even more dependent on environmental conditions than the root microbiome [ 88,185].It should be pointed out that the data regarding phyllosphere microbiomes other than leafmicrobiomes is still rather limited. A study on the microbiome of apple ( Malus domesticaBorkh.) ﬂowers showed that the most popular are bacteria belonging to the extremophilicphylum Deinococcus -Thermus . Moreover, the composition of the ﬂower microbiome wasdependent on the phase of apple ﬂower development [200].The composition of the plant microbiome is also strongly inﬂuenced by variousenvironmental factors, such as climate, soil properties [ 201–203], water [ 204], and nutrientavailability [ 205,206]. The adaptation of plant metabolism to environmental change isstrongly supported by rapidly changing microbial communities [ 204]. Analysis of thelettuce ( Lactuca sativa L.) microbiome showed that the composition of the phyllospheremicrobiome is strongly dependent on the time of the year [ 207]. Drought is one of themost important stress factors signiﬁcantly affecting not only plant growth and the yieldof crops [ 208], but also the plant microbiome. Drought affects the microbiome directlybecause a low level of soil moisture inhibits the growth of several microorganisms. Indrought conditions, plants recruit stress microbiomes, i.e., the most beneﬁcial group ofmicrobes allowing the plant to adapt to a particular set of environmental conditions.For instance, the abundance of Actinobacteria increased in drought-treated roots andthe rhizosphere of 18 species belonging to Poaceae . The results suggest that althoughthe microbiome is species-speciﬁc, drought caused a relatively conserved response indifferent hosts [ 209]. In drought stress conditions, an increase in the abundance of therhizospheric drought stress-resistant bacteria in Oryza sativa L. was observed, mainlymembers of Actinobacteria and Chloroﬂexi, whereas the abundance of Acidobacteria andDeltaproteobacteria decreased [ 210]. Nelson et al. [ 211] reported enormous changes inmicrobial composition in forest soils after wildﬁres which occur more often due to climatechange. As expected, an overall decrease in the abundance and biodiversity of bacterial andfungal communities was observed one year after the ﬁre. Both the carbon and nitrogen cyclewere found to be impaired not only by the loss of microbial taxa involved in geochemicalcycles, (e.g., no expression of nifA genes in tested soils was detected), but also by the activityof viruses. The presence of plant pathogens has also a substantial effect on the microbiome(Figure 1). In Gossypium hirsutum L. (cotton) infected with the pathogenic fungus Verticillium,the abundance of arbuscular mycorrhiza fungi and plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB)was lowered [ 212]. A study on strawberries ( Fragaria x ananassa Duchesne) infected withVerticillium dahliae and Macrophomina phaseolina showed that plants without symptoms ofinfection had a higher abundance of PGPB than plants with visible symptoms of infection.The microbiome of healthy plants includes more bacteria antagonistic or competitivetowards pathogens [ 213]. Moreover, herbivores can shape the plant microbiome. Konget al. [ 214] showed that whiteﬂy infestation of Capsicum annuum L. (pepper) changed theoverall microbiome composition. Pseudomonas spp. that are recruited by the plant to therhizosphere microbiome increased the mortality of whiteﬂy.A particular part of the microbiome is the core microbiome which consists of thosespecies of microbes that regularly and ubiquitously appear in the microbiomes of particularplant species. The concept of the core microbiome was ﬁrst coined by a scientist involved inthe Human Microbiome Project, with the goal to identify microbial taxa and/or genes thatare shared by all or most humans [ 215]. Microbial taxa that are commonly found in a num-ber of environments or host types can be assigned to a core microbiome. The most commonapproach to verifying whether a species belong to the core microbiome is to determinemicrobial groups that are shared among two or more microbiomes of a particular host invarious environments [ 216]. For example, analysis of the B. napus rhizosphere microbiomegrown in different conditions, i.e., the level of fertilization and the level of plant density,revealed that the core root microbiome of this plant is composed of microbes belongingto genera Streptomyces ,Cryocola ,Arthrobacter ,Flavobacterium ,Janthinobacterium ,Serratia ,Kaistobacter ,Pseudomonas ,Pedobacter ,Agrobacterium ,Burkholderia ,Acidovorax, Erwinia , andMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 14 of 47Stentrophomonas [217]. Analysis of the composition of the microbiome of various plantspecies including A. thaliana , rice, sugarcane, grapevine, barley, and soybean has revealedthat the core microbiome included microbes belonging to Pseudomonas ,Agrobacterium ,Methylobacterium ,Sphingomonas ,Erwinia ,Cladosporium ,Conithyrium ,Resinicium , andFusarium [177]. A special part of the core microbiome is a group of microorganisms called“hub microorganisms”. Those microorganisms strongly shape the composition of the mi-crobiome through biotic interactions with host plants and other microbes. Microorganismsbelonging to the hub species are called keystone species since they serve as mediatorsbetween the plant and members of the plant microbiome. Through the hub species, thehost plant can selectively affect the composition of the associated microbiome. Removalof keystone species can result in the loss of interaction and a disturbance in the wholemicrobiome [ 218]. The analysis of the phyllosphere microbiome of A. thaliana showed thatplant-parasitic oomycetes Albugo laibachii is a hub species that strongly affects the wholemicrobial community. As a consequence of infection with A. laibachii, high divergencebetween the composition of the microbiome of control and of infected plants was observed.Moreover, less variability among microbiomes of infected plants was shown [ 219]. Ina study on corn ( Zea mays L.) hub species, the elimination of Enterobacter cloaceae frominoculum containing seven microbes resulted in a loss of a few other microbes from themicrobiome. Removal of other bacteria from this system did not signiﬁcantly change themicrobial community which suggests that E. cloaceae functions as a keystone species [ 220].A far wider concept than microbiome is the concept of holobiont which was introducedin 1991 [ 221]. Currently, a holobiont is deﬁned as an organism composed of the plant hostand of all the microorganisms that are associated with that particular plant. Naturalselection between the plant and microbes supports the system and its stability throughoutthe evolution of a holobiont. In a holobiont, intricate networks of interactions betweenmicroorganisms and plant host are observed (as reviewed in [ 177,218,222,223]). All thegenes present in the holobiont, i.e., plant genes and genes in the microbiome, constitute thehologenome [ 224,225]. The concept of a hologenome suggests that plants’ adaptability tothe environment is determined not only by plant genes but also by genes of microorganisms.Hologenomes are responsible for shaping the phenotype of holobionts in response to aparticular set of environmental conditions [226].4. Plant Immune System in Plant–PGPM InteractionsThe plant immune system plays a key role in plant–microorganism interactions. It iscrucial not only for controlling pathogenic microorganisms but also for balancing the home-ostasis of the microbiome and for overseeing commensal microbes [ 227]. The prominent rolein plant–PGPM interactions play patterns recognizing receptors (PRRs), which recognizeconserved microorganisms-speciﬁc molecules referred to as pathogen-/microbe-associatedmolecular patterns (P/MAMPs), such as ﬂagellin, lipopolysaccharides, antibiotics, andVOCs [ 228]. PRRs are transmembrane multimeric protein complexes located at the plasmamembranes present in all plant organs and tissues. Plant PRRs are either surface-localizedreceptor kinases that contain ligand-binding ectodomain and intracellular kinase domainor receptor-like proteins that do not have any intracellular signaling domain. PRRs con-tain various ligand-binding ectodomains that allow for the recognition of a wide rangeof P/MAMPs [ 228] and activate pattern-triggered immunity (PTI) [ 229]. Activation ofPTI via MAMPs inhibits intensive proliferation of most microorganisms via synthesisand secretion of low-molecular-weight compounds, e.g., phytoanticipins and proteins,e.g., defensins. Moreover, plants synthesize cuticles which lead to the thickening of thecell wall [ 227]. Some pathogens secrete effector molecules, which disturb PTI functioningand thus allow for the infection of the plant [ 222]. Effector-triggered immunity (ETI) isactivated by recognition of pathogen effector proteins via intracellular receptors R proteinsencoded by resistance genes (R genes) [ 230,231] and via nucleotide-binding leucine-richrepeat receptors (NLR) located in the cytoplasm [ 229]. ETI leads to the overproduction ofreactive oxygen species (ROS) and ion ﬂuxes. As a consequence, hypersensitive responseMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 15 of 47(HR) is activated which leads to apoptosis of infected plant cells that restrict the spread ofinfection [232].Much less is known about the action of the plant immune system in the contextof commensal microorganisms; however, there is some evidence that the plant immunesystem is crucial for microbiome assembly. Some strains of bacteria are able to modulateplant receptors, transcription factors, and molecules involved in the functioning of animmune system which allows for the colonization of plant tissues by other symbioticmicrobes [ 233]. Moreover, some mechanisms used by the members of the microbiome toevade or suppress the plant immune system were also described. For example, in somesymbiotic microorganisms, MAMP variants that do not activate plant immune responsevia PRRs have evolved. In addition, some commensal fungi are able to convert chitin intochitosan via deacetylation which induces a weaker immune response. MAMPs could bealso degraded or sequestered by microbial proteases and other enzymes in order to evaderecognition by PRR, as reviewed in [ 222]. It was also suggested that plants are able toactively ignore the presence of microbial commensals [ 234]. In A. thaliana, outer layers ofroots low expression of PRRs and a lack of immune response in presence of pathogen- andcommensal-derived MAMPs were reported. Neighboring cells harbor a high number ofPRRs and show a rapid MAMP-triggered response [235].5. Mechanisms Underneath PGPM–Plant InteractionsPlant growth-promoting microorganisms affect various aspects of plant growth anddevelopment. PGPM enhances the germination ratio [ 18,23,236], increases the elongationgrowth of the shoot and root [ 46,48,237], increases the biomass production [ 20,26,37],accelerates ﬂowering [ 56,73], and increases the photosynthesis rate [ 27,42]. The examplesof the mechanisms of action of plant growth-promoting fungi (PGPF) and bacteria (PGPB)are presented in Tables 2 and 3, respectively.Table 2. Examples of mechanisms of plant growth promotion by PGPF.Gene/Product Function Species Referenceaph/acid phosphatase- increased P availability viaphosphates solubilizationAspergillus, Trichoderma,Penicillium[238,239]AMT1; AMT2;AAT9/ ammoniumtransporter; aminoacid transporter- improved N acquisition Tulasnella calospora [240]AQPF /aquaporin- transport of water to the host- enhanced drought stress resistanceGlomus intraradices [241]Phy/phytase- increased P availability viasolubilization of inositolAspergillus, Trichoderma,Penicillium[238,239,242]acdS /ACC deaminase- degradation of ethylene precursor andprotects against elevatedethylene levels- ameliorates stress effects andpromotes root growthTrichoderma asperellum,Penicillium citrinum,Trichoderma gamsii[243]Hyd; Qid /hydrophobins- allows for adhesion of hyphae to thesurface of roots and protects hyphaeagainst antifungal compounds- functions as MAMP(microbe-associated molecular pattern)and triggers plant response involvedwith symbiont recognitionTrichoderma asperellum,Trichoderma harzianum[244,245]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 16 of 47Table 2. Cont.Gene/Product Function Species ReferenceMST2/ monosaccharidetransporter2- development of arbuscules- facilitates root colonizationGlomus sp. [246]Tex1 /non-ribosomalpeptided synthase- synthesis of trichovirin II (peptaibol)which activates the plantimmune systemTrichoderma virens [247]Thctf1 /transriptional factor- regulates the synthesis of6-pentyl-2H-pyran-2-one (6-PP) (VOC)which exhibits antifungal activityTrichoderma sp. [248]Thph1; Thph2/cellulases- cellulolytic activity- triggers plant immune systemTrichoderma harzianum [236]sidD /siderophores synthase- synthesis of siderophores- improved Fe acquisition- defense against pathogensTrichoderma reesei, Trichodermavirens[249]Sm1; Sm2; Ep1; Swo/cerato-platanins; swollenin- fungal elicitors and upregulation ofgenes involved in JA signaling(modulation of the immune system)- swollenin disrupts the plant cell wallstructure and enables penetration ofthe apoplastTrichoderma citrinoviride,Trichoderma virens[250–252]Table 3. Examples of mechanisms of plant growth promotion by PGPB.Gene/Product Function Species Reference2,3-butanediol dehydrogenase- synthesis of 2,3-butanediol- growth promotion- induction of ISRBacillus sp.,Aerobacter sp.,Serratia sp.,Enterobacter sp.,Klebsiella sp.[253]acdS /ACC deaminase- degradation of ethylene precursor andprotects against elevatedethylene levels- ameliorates stress effectsAzospirillum sp.Pseudomonas putida[254,255]alkaline phosphatase- increased P availability viaphosphates solubilizationPseudomonas brassicacearum [253]budoperon- synthesis of acetoine and2,3-butanediol- induction of ISR (inducedsystemic resistance)- increased drought toleranceEnterobacter sp638 [256]chitinase; glucanase - defense against fungal pathogensPseudomonas aureginosa ,Pseudomonas veronii[257,258]exoprotease- N acquisition- protection against pathogensPseudomonas brassicacearum [253]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 17 of 47Table 3. Cont.Gene/Product Function Species Referencefur/transcription factor- modulates gene expression encodingFe transporter- Fe acquisitionPseudomonas brassicacearum [253]gcd/pyrroloquinoline quinone(PQQ)-dependantdehydrogenase- production of gluconic acid- P acquisitionPseudomonas ﬂuorescens F113,Erwinia herbicola,Enterobacter intermedium[253]hcnABC /HCN synthase - protection against pathogensPseudomonas ﬂuorescens.Pseudomonas aeruginosa,Pseudomonas chlororaphis[259]ilvHI ;ivlC/acetohydroxyacidsynthase; ketol-acidreductoisomerase- synthesis of secondary metabolitesincluding antibiotics- induction of ISRBacillus subtilis [253]ipd; ppd/indole-3-pyruvatedecarboxylase;phenylpyruvatefenylopirogroniandecarboxylase- synthesis of IAA- promotion of root growthAzospirllum brasilense Sp245,Enterobacter cloacae UW5,Enterobacteriaceae[260–262]nagA/N-acetylglucosamine-6phosphate deacetylase- chitinase-like protein and defenseagainst fungal pathogensPseudomonas brassicacearum [253]nif/nitrogenase - nitrogen assimilationAzospirllum, Burkoholderia,Rhizobium, Bradyrhizobium,Mesorhizobium,Delftia, Stenotrophomonas,Rhizobium, Brevundimonas,Variovorax, Achromobacter,Novosphingobium, Comamonas[263–266]phloperon- production of antibiotic2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol- induction of ISRPseudomonas ﬂuorescens F113,Pseudomonas protegnes CHA0[267]phyC /phytase- increased P availability viasolubilization of inositolPseudomonas brassicacearum [253]rhb; rhtA /siderophoresynthase; mebraneFe-regulated receptor- production of rhziobactin(siderophore) and Fe acquisition- Fe uptake regulationSinorhizobium meliloti [268]ribC/riboﬂavin synthase- growth promotion- defense against pathogens via ISR- upregulation ofpathogenesis-related genesPseudomonas yamanorum [269]yecA; speB /polyaminepermease; agmatinase- synthesis and/or secretionof polyamines- lowers ethylene level in root cells- modulation of expansingenes expression- promotion of root growth- increases tolerance to low pH,oxidative and osmotic stressBacillus subtilis OKB105 [270]Several mechanisms underneath the promotion of plant growth and developmentby microorganisms are employed by both bacteria and fungi for example degradationof ethylene via ACC deaminase, production of phytohormones, and solubilization ofvarious soil compounds to increase the bioavailability of nutrients (Tables 2 and 3). Forsure the mechanism of greatest importance is the ﬁxation of atmospheric nitrogen viaMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 18 of 47nitrogenase, a mechanism that is speciﬁc to some specialized groups of prokaryotes (asreviewed in [ 271,272]). On the other hand, the fungi-speciﬁc mechanisms that allow forthe promotion of plant growth and development includes the production of hydrophobins,swollenins, and peptaibols (please see the section Trichoderma -plant interaction—a casestudy, for details).5.1. Plant Antioxidant Defence SystemOne of the best-known mechanisms to improve plant growth and development byPGPM is the modiﬁcation of the level of antioxidants including antioxidative enzymes,e.g., superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), peroxidase (POD), catalase(CAT), glutathione reductase (GR), and non-enzymatic antioxidants, e.g., proline, glu-tathione (GSH), ascorbic acid, carotenoids, and phenolics [ 25,273–277]. Islam et al. [ 278]demonstrated that inoculation of Vigna radiata (L.) R. Wilczek with Bacillus cereus Pb25increased dry biomass and yield in salt stress conditions. Salt-induced oxidative damagewas reduced by enhancing the activity of plant POD, SOD, and CAT and by increasingproline content in plants. Inoculation of O. sativa with Bacillus pumilus increased the activityof rice catalase and superoxide dismutase in salt stress conditions. Moreover, inoculation ofrice with B. pumilus promoted the synthesis of photosynthetic pigments and proline [ 275].Accumulation of phenols and proline was observed in cucumber inoculated with arbus-cular mycorrhizal fungi in salt conditions [ 279]. A potato co-inoculated with T. viride andplant pathogen Alternaria solani showed improved redox homeostasis via increased activityof CAT and SOD, and enhanced concentration of free phenolics. Moreover, co-inoculationwith T. viride and A. solani resulted in increased H 2O2production which induced the expres-sion of plant defense genes [ 274]. Chen et al. [ 25] reported increased salt stress tolerance inmaize after inoculation with B. amyloliquefaciens SQR9. Inoculated plants showed a reducedlevel of Na+, a higher glutathione content, a higher concentration of soluble sugars, andenhanced activities of peroxidase and catalase. B. amyloliquefaciens enhanced chlorophyllcontent and promoted the overall growth of inoculated plants in comparison to controlplants. In addition to the well-known elements of the antioxidant system, there are alsoother proteins exhibiting antioxidant activity, including small cysteine-rich proteins met-allothioneins (MTs). MTs act as direct antioxidants since the reduced thiol groups (-SH)can be oxidized by ROS. MTs also serve as a donor of zinc and copper to other antioxida-tive enzymes [ 280,281]. Inoculation of rapeseed with fungal strains isolated from forestsoil showed varied expressions of B. napus metallothioneins ( BnMT1 -BnMT3 ).L. laccatainoculated plants showed signiﬁcant upregulation of BnMT2 expression with a decrease inBnMT3 transcripts [43].5.2. PhytohormonesSome bacteria are able to synthesize and secrete phytohormones and thus regulateplant growth and development. For example, B. subtills synthesizes auxins and gib-berellins [ 282], and A. brasilense [283,284],Peanibacillus polymyxa [285], and P . ﬂuorescens [286]produce cytokinins. Inoculation of S. tuberosum damaged by insect attack (beetleLeptinotarsa decemlineata ) with B. subtilis 26D led to increased concentration of zeatin-riboside but not of abscisic acid (ABA) and indole acetic acid (IAA). The inoculation of pota-toes with B. subtilis increased the mass of roots [ 287]. In the culture of Bacillus aryabhattaiabscisic acid, indole acetic acid, cytokinins, and gibberellic acids were detected. Soybeaninoculated with these bacteria produced more IAA, jasmonic acid, and some gibberellicacids. Moreover, inoculated plants displayed increased tolerance to heat stress possiblydue to the ABA-induced closure of stomata [288].Although different stressors affect plant organisms in various ways, most of themlead to increased ethylene production in plants. Weak stress factors can cause small over-production of ethylene which leads to the activation of plant stress-related genes. Longperiods of stress and severe stressors cause a high level of ethylene production, whichmight lead to senescence, chlorosis, and organ abscission [ 136]. Some PGPM are able toMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 19 of 47lower the level of ethylene through secretion of ACC deaminase, i.e., the enzyme thatbreaks down ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC). Inoculation ofplants with microbes producing ACC deaminase effectively increased the plant resistanceto stress caused by fungal pathogens [ 289], nematodes [ 290], and several abiotic stressessuch as ﬂooding [ 291], drought [ 135], salination [ 133], heavy metals [ 292], and toxic contam-inates [ 134]. For example, inoculation of pearl millet seed with ACC deaminase-producingB. amyloliquefaciens increased plant growth in drought stress via increasing the level ofenzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants [ 272]. Isolated from Brassica rapa L. rhizospherebacteria belonging to Pseudomonas sp. improved biomass and yield of B. rapa . The posi-tive effect of analyzed strains on B. rapa is possibly due to the production of IAA, ACCdeaminase, and siderophores [95].5.3. Availability of Micro- and MacronutrientsIn most terrestrial ecosystems, nitrogen is the major nutrient limiting plant growth.PGPMs might increase the pool of nitrogen available for plants thorough various mecha-nisms. It is estimated that in nature more than 60% of ﬁxed nitrogen is a result of biologicalnitrogen ﬁxation [ 272]. A well-known example is the Rhizobia present in root and stemnodules of legumes that is able to reduce N 2to ammonia. There are also other symbiotic,plant-endophytic, and free-living bacteria able to ﬁx molecular nitrogen, including bacteriabelonging to Frankia ,Cyanobacteria ,Azotobacter ,Bacillus , and Azospirillum, as reviewedin [293]. The Co-inoculation of beans with Rhizobium phaseoli and bacteria belongingtoBacillus and Pseudomonas improved plant growth by enhancing the total content ofnitrogen in plant tissues more efﬁciently than inoculation with R. phaseoli. Only [ 127].Hungria et al. [ 130] reported that the co-inoculation of soybean seeds with Azospirillum andBradyrhizobium signiﬁcantly enhances the yield without any input of nitrogen fertilizers.Several lines of evidence showed that rhizobia are susceptible to drought-stress and theefﬁciency of N 2-ﬁxation dramatically declines in low-water conditions [ 294]. For example,co-inoculation of a common bean with Rhizobium tropici and two strains of P . polymyxa moreeffectively increased nitrogen content and promoted plant growth than inoculation withRhizobium only especially in drought conditions [295].Phosphorus is also considered as element limiting plant growth in most ecosystems.Although phosphorus is an abundant element in ecosystems, most of it is not bioavail-able [ 296]. There is a group of microbes, phosphate solubilizing microorganisms (PSM),that are able to increase the available fraction of phosphorus for plants via solubiliza-tion and mineralization mediated by secretion of organic acids, phosphatases, protons,and exopolysaccharides [ 297]. Red clover ( Trifolium pratense L.) inoculated with phos-phate solubilizing fungi Penicillium albidum showed a signiﬁcant increase in root biomass.In soil inoculated with fungi, the phosphatase activity was 1.5-fold higher than in thenon-inoculated soil [ 129]. In soil inoculated with Burkholderia sp.,Gluconobacter sp., andPseudomonas striata, higher activity of dehydrogenase and phosphatase and a higher levelof available P were detected. Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp. grown in inoculated soil hadnoticeably higher biomass and yield than plants grown in non-inoculated soil. Moreover,tested microorganisms enhance uptake not only of phosphorus but also of nitrogen [ 298].Inoculation of T. aestivum with Serratia marcescens enhanced plant growth and nutrientuptake (P , N, and K) in low temperatures. The ability of tested bacteria to solubilize Pdecreased at low temperatures [299].Soil minerals, such as feldspars and micas, are the most common form of potassiumin soils. Up to 90–98% of soil potassium is present in a form unavailable for plants [ 300].By secretion of organic acids and capsular polysaccharides, some PGPM are able to solu-bilize potassium rocks, e.g., bacteria belonging to Acidothiobacillus ,Bacillus ,Pseudomonas ,Burkholderia , and Peanibacillus [301]. Ali et al. [ 302] reported that inoculation of potatoeswith K-solubilizing B. cereus resulted in signiﬁcantly improved plant growth and yield.Moreover, the content of K in potato tubers and the content of N, P , and K in leaves washigher in comparison to control plants. Inoculation of ryegrass with Mesorhizobium sp.,Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 20 of 47Peanibacillus sp., and Arthrobacter sp. isolated from canola rhizosphere improved biomassand yield. The content of available K in soil was much higher and resulted in increasedK content in plants [ 303]. Basak and Biswas [ 304] demonstrated that treatment of wastemica with Bacillus mucilaginosus led to the transformation of K forms into water-solubleforms. This had a positive effect on K uptake and biomass of sudan grass ( Sorghum vulgarePers.). Similar effects were observed by Raji and Thangavelu [ 305], who analyzed the effectof inoculation of tomato ( Lycopersicon esculentum L.) grown in Alﬁsol and Vertisol soils withB. subtilis ,B. cereus ,Bacillus licheniformis, and Burkholderia cenocepacia . Inoculated plantsshowed higher K content in tissues and improved growth.The deﬁciency of microelements, including copper (Cu), iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), andmanganese (Mn), is also a prominent factor that negatively affects plant health. In cal-careous soils (widespread in arid and semiarid regions of the world), the high contentof calcium carbonate which acts as a buffer and maintains a pH above 7.5, is correlatedwith decreased bioavailability of Fe, Zn, and Mn [ 306]. Plants possess mechanisms al-lowing them to increase amounts of bioavailable microelements in soils. For example, tofacilitate Fe acquisition, plants secrete siderophores, organic acids, and ﬂavonoids [ 307],whereas the amount of bioavailable Zn is increased by the secretion of organic acids, suchas propionic acid, formic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, succinic acid, malic acid, oxalic acid,and gluconic acid as well as by secretion of siderophores, as reviewed in [ 308]. A tomatogrown in hydroponic culture with the addition of soil minerals in Cu-deﬁcient conditionsshowed increased biomass and Cu uptake after inoculation with Trichoderma harzianumSQR-T037 in comparison to non-inoculated plants. Interestingly, inoculation of a tomatowith T. harzianum SQR-T037 grown in an Fe-deﬁcient hydroponic culture with the addi-tion of solid mineral increased the Fe content in plant tissue, but the biomass of seedlingwas unaffected. In addition, inoculation of tomatoes grown in Zn-deﬁcient hydroponicconditions did not increase the biomass and the concentration of Zn in plant tissues wasdecreased. Those observations suggest that in element-deﬁcient conditions fungi competewith plants for nutrients [ 309]. Rana et al. [ 128] showed enhanced yield and increasedconcentrations of Fe, Zn, Cu, and Mn by 13–16% in rice grains after inoculation withBrevundimonas diminuta ,Ochrobactrum anthropic , and Providencia sp. Wheat inoculationwith Providencia sp. signiﬁcantly increased yield and the content of Fe and Cu in grainswas 45% higher than in control plants. Singh et al. [ 310] reported that endophytic bacteriaisolated from wheat, such as B. subtilis ,Arthrobacter sp.,A. sulfonivorans , and Enterobacterhirae exhibiting plant growth-promoting traits, enhanced Fe and Zn fortiﬁcation as well asyield and dry/fresh weight in pot experiment and ﬁeld conditions. Moreover, a decrease inphytic acid was observed in grains of wheat plants inoculated with endophytes. A ﬁeldstudy on common bean and wheat fortiﬁcation showed that inoculation with A. brasilenseand T. harzianum signiﬁcantly enhanced micronutrients, i.e., Fe, Mn, and Zn content in bothtested plants [ 311]. Enhanced content of selenium was observed in lettuce inoculated withbacteria Bacillus sp.,Klebsiella sp.,Acinetobacter sp., and with fungus Rhizophagus intraradicesin drought stress conditions. Results showed that plants inoculated with bacteria showedhigher biomass production in comparison to plants inoculated with fungus, and Klebsiellasp. was the most effective in the induction of Se accumulation in lettuce. Moreover, testedmicrobes increased drought stress resistance, the chlorophyll and carotenoid content, andenhanced the level of antioxidant enzymes [ 312]. The ability of some PGPM to increasethe content of macro- and micro-elements in different parts of plants is also important forhuman nutrition. Microelements deﬁciency (especially zinc and iron) is widespread all overthe world. Biofortiﬁcation, i.e., approaches to enhance the nutritional value of crops, withmicroelements in edible parts of plants, is the most promising approach to ﬁght againstmicroelements deﬁciency, as reviewed in [ 313–315]. Therefore, PGPM seems to be of crucialimportance for both food quantity, i.e., enhanced plant yield and food quality, i.e., edibleparts of plants with high content of minerals.Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 21 of 475.4. Direct Interactions of PGPM with Plant PathogensPGPM might directly interact with various plant pathogens. Through various mecha-nisms, including the production and secretion of antimicrobial metabolites, antagonisms,mycoparasitisms, and competing for niche PGPM can enhance plant biotic stress resistance.Cabreﬁga et al. [ 316] reported an antagonistic interaction between P . ﬂuorescens EPS62e andErwinia amylovora , bacteria causing ﬁre blight disease on pear trees ( Pyrus sp.). P . ﬂuorescensEPS62e did not produce antibiotics and required cell-to-cell contact with the pathogen inorder to inhibit their growth on pear ﬂowers and fruits. Interestingly, antagonistic activitywas not shown when bacteria were grown in an Fe-rich medium, which suggested that theproduction of siderophores is responsible for the P . ﬂuorescens EPS62e ability to inhibit thegrowth of E. amylovora . Inoculation of plants with antibiotic-producing microorganismsmight lead to the suppression of various plant diseases. From the roots and rhizospheresoil of cucumber grown in soil inoculated with biocontrol agent B. subtilis, antibioticssurfactin and iturin A were extracted [ 317]. Bais et al. [ 318] showed that the biocontrolability of B. subtilis against Pseudomonas syringae is tightly linked with the productionof surfactin involved in bioﬁlm formation on A. thaliana roots. B. subtilis mutant with adeletion in the surfactin synthase gene was unable to form bioﬁlm and was ineffective inprotection against P . syringae attack. Rhizospheric S. plymuthica HRO-C48 isolated fromthe rhizosphere of rapeseed produces antibiotic pyrrolnitrin and can protect plants againstVerticillium wilt [ 319]. Kurze et al. [ 320] demonstrated that S. plymuthica HRO-C48 protectsstrawberries against fungal pathogens V . dahliae and Phytophtora cactorum . Moreover, theinoculation of strawberries with S. plymuthica promoted plant growth and improved yield.Inoculation of wheat seedlings with Trichoderma sp. resulted in an increase in plant resis-tance markers when plants were infected with Fusarium spp. Moreover, a decrease in IAAwas observed. Biocontrol activity of Trichoderma was connected with the secretion of lyticenzymes and fungal elicitors as well as mycoparasitism [ 49]. An interesting observationwas made by Chen et al. [ 321] who showed that Pseudomonas piscium isolated from wheat isable to alter histone acetylation in pathogenic Fusarium gramineareum and, therefore, reducethe fungus level of virulence and mycotoxin production by the fungus. An identiﬁedcompound secreted by P . piscium, i.e., phenazine-1-carboxamide, disturbs the activity offungal histone acetyltransferase FgGcn5, responsible for the regulation of gene expressioninvolved not only in virulence and the growth of the mycelium, but also in asexual andsexual reproduction and stress response.5.5. Induction of the Plant Resistance by Microbial ElicitorsAlthough the use of living microorganisms is a potent tool in the development of sus-tainable agriculture, it has also numerous constraints due to legal regulations [ 322]. As analternative to the living microbes and cell wall polymers (CWP) of bacteria, fungi can be em-ployed as elicitors [ 323–325]. Elicitors trigger the immune response of the plant via numer-ous mechanisms including accumulation of lignin, antimicrobial enzymes, e.g., chitinases,glucanases, phytoalexins, and proteins related to the response to the presence of pathogens,guaiacol, and ribonuclease [ 326]. One of the efﬁcient elicitors is chitin and its deacetylatedderivative chitosan (N-acetylglucosamine subunits are linked by ( 1!4) -bonds ). For ex-ample, chitosan led to an increase in the systemic resistance in tomatoes and an increase inthe plant resistance towards Alternaria solani and Xanthomonas vesicatoria [327]. TreatmentofPsammosilene tunicoides with chitosan led to an increased expression of genes encodingantioxidant enzymes and transcription factors controlling stress-response genes. Moreover,the content of secondary metabolites terpenoid saponins increased [ 328]. The cost-effectiveand efﬁcient source of elicitors are fungi belonging both to Ascomycota and Basidiomycota.Research by Nowak et al. [ 326] showed that ( 1!3) --D-glucooligosaccharides (GOS) ob-tained by hydrolysis of (1 !3)--D-glucan from Laetiporus sulphureus induced the growth ofwheat seedlings. Moreover, GOS caused the increase in the activity of CAT and APX, in theactivity of chitinase, and higher activity of enzymes activating phenylpropanoid-producingpathways. Laminarin, a polysaccharide, consists of -(1-3)-glucan with -(1-6)-linkagesMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 22 of 47of 20–25 units isolated from brown algae, which is an example of elicitor belonging to-glucans. Treatment of grapevine-cultured cells with laminarin led to calcium inﬂux, anoxidative burst, and the induction of pathogen-related genes. Laminarin by the inductionof plant resistance indirectly contributes to the reduction of the growth of B. cinerea andPlasmopara viticola on grapevine plants [329].6. The Stringent Response in Plant–Microorganism InteractionsAmong several plant mechanisms regulating growth, development, and the responseto environmental factors, the stringent response is of particular interest. The stringent re-sponse was ﬁrst discovered in Escherichia coli in response to amino acid starvation [ 330]. Thehallmark of the stringent response is the accumulation of atypical regulatory nucleotidesguanosine tetra- (ppGpp) and pentaphosphates (pppGpp) called alarmones that are respon-sible for pleiotropic adaptation to nutrient deﬁciency and stress factors [ 331,332]. Moreover,the bacterial stringent response through regulation of quorum sensing indirectly affectsthe formation of microcolonies and the development and functioning of bioﬁlm [ 333].Alarmones are synthesized from ATP/GTP or GDP by enzymes possessing active syn-thetase domain (SYNTH) and are hydrolyzed to GTP/GDP and pyrophosphate by enzymescontaining active hydrolytic domain (HD). Gram-negative bacteria usually possess twoseparate enzymes, i.e., alarmones synthetase RelA and alarmones hydrolase SpoT. Gram-positive bacteria usually possess one bifunctional Rel protein [ 334,335]. RelA and SpoTbelong to the long RSH (RelA/SpoT homologue), i.e., enzymes possessing HD and SYNTHdomains. In bacteria, there are also short RSH, i.e., enzymes containing either SYNTHdomain, small alarmone synthases (SAS) or HD domain, or small alarmone hydrolases(SAH), whereas in animals, to date only small alarmone hydrolases were identiﬁed (Mesh1—metazoan SpoT homologue) [ 336]. Alarmones regulate transcription, translation, and DNAreplication, and trigger metabolical and physiological changes in response to unfavorableenvironmental conditions. Upon accumulation of alarmones, bacteria change their lifestylefrom growth and proliferation to survival mode [ 335]. Sanchez-Vazquez et al. [ 337] demon-strated that in E. coli, the elevated (p)ppGpp level affected the expression of 757 genesﬁve minutes after the induction of the stringent response and after another ﬁve minutesthe expression of 1 224 genes was affected. Activation of the stringent response can betriggered by a deﬁciency of amino acids [ 330], fatty acids [ 338,339], iron [ 340], carbon [ 341],nitrogen [ 342], phosphorus [ 343], and by other types of stress, e.g., increased tempera-ture [ 344,345], cell wall antibiotics, ethanol and acid treatments, superoxide stress [ 346],and alkaline shock [347].The presence of (p)ppGpp in photosynthetic Eucaryota was conﬁrmed in the algaeChlamydomonas reinharditi [348]. In higher plants, RSH genes were identiﬁed for the ﬁrsttime in A. thaliana [349] and subsequently in other plant species, e.g., Nicotiana tabacumL. [350], rice [ 351],Ipomoea nil L. Roth [ 352],Sueda japonica Forssk. ex J.F. Gmel. [ 353],pepper [ 354], and non-vascular plants, e.g., Physcomitrella patens (Hedw.) Bruch andSchimp [ 355]. Plant RSH proteins are divided into three groups, i.e., RSH1, RSH2/3,and CRSH. All identiﬁed plant RSH proteins belong to the long RSH, i.e., possess both HDand SYNTH domains. In model plants, the A. thaliana SYNTH domain of RSH1 (AtRSH1)is Inactive due to the substitution of conserved glycine residue required for its activity.AtCRSH does not possess a functional hydrolase domain and in AtRSH2/3, both SYNTHand HD domains are active [ 356]. In addition to HD and SYNTH domains, RSH pos-sess chloroplast transit peptide [ 357], TGS (RSH1, RSH2/3), and ACT domains (RSH1)which were proposed to act as regulatory- or ligand-binding domains [ 358]. CRSH arethe only proteins involved in alarmones metabolism that possess two EF hand motifsand are activated by Ca2+ions [ 359]. The domain structure of RSH proteins is highlyconserved across plant species. It is now widely accepted that in plants, the place of alar-mones action are chloroplasts [ 360–363]. Alarmones act as regulators of plant developmentand growth, i.e., (p)ppGpp coordinate micro- and macro-elements redistribution duringsenescent [ 364]. They modulate the level of phytohormones [ 365], lipids [ 366,367], andMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 23 of 47secondary metabolites [ 368] in chloroplasts. Moreover, alarmones promote the replicationof plastidial DNA [ 364]. Plant RSH genes are differently expressed in presence of bioticand abiotic stress factors, which suggest that alarmones contribute to plant response in anumber of stress factors, i.e., oxidative stress [ 369], nitrogen starvation [ 369,370], wounding,salination, drought, UV radiation, heat shock, heavy metals, and abrupt change from lightto darkness [ 371]. Masuda et al. [ 372] showed that RSH probably play a role in plant repro-duction, as the AtCRSH knockdown mutant produced smaller siliques and a lower numberof seeds. An interesting observation was made by Ono et al. [ 373], who demonstratedan increased (p)ppGpp concentration in chloroplast upon a light-to-dark transition. Thealarmones accumulation was due to higher activity of CRSH caused by elevated levels ofCa2+in chloroplasts. As a consequence, the expression of plastidial genes is adapted todarkness. Interestingly, it was demonstrated that the accumulation of alarmones in plantsleads to a decreased expression of genes involved in the defense system, which can lead tohigher susceptibility to infections [365].Plants are probably able to manipulate the level of alarmones synthesis in members oftheir own microbiome but also in pathogenic bacteria. Through modulation of (p)ppGppproduction in bacteria, plants may be able to decrease virulence and inhibit the growthof pathogens. Nowicki et al. [ 374] demonstrated the activation of stringent response inE. coli cells by plant secondary metabolites isothiocyanates (ITC). ITC-induced stringentresponse in E. coli led to growth inhibition, disturbed transcription, and DNA replication.The induction of the E. coli stringent response may be the result of a direct interactionof ITC with cellular proteins. That idea is plausible since sulforaphane (one of the ITCs)inhibits the growth of numerous bacteria and recently potential target proteins of ITC wereidentiﬁed [ 375]. Mwita et al. [ 376] showed that the expression of SasA (short alarmonesynthase) of PGPB Bacillus atrophaeus UCMB-5137 is considerably upregulated by maize rootexudates. Further implications of observation on these bacteria metabolisms need, however,further evaluation. On the other hand, inoculation of plants with PGPB can affect plantRSH gene expression; however, the data are scarce. D ˛ abrowska et al. [ 377] demonstratedthat B. napus inoculated with S. plymuthica and Serratia liquefaciens exhibited elevatedmRNA levels of BnRSH1 in cotyledons and roots, whereas inoculation with Massilia timonaeincreased BnRSH1 expression only in roots. Moreover, S. plymuthica seemed to affect alsothe expression of BnRSH2 and BnRSH3 in cotyledons and roots. The relative transcriptlevel of BnCRSH was elevated in cotyledons in presence of S. plymuthica and S. liquefaciens .Inoculation of canola grown in salt-stress conditions with endophytic Pseudomonas stutzeriISE12 signiﬁcantly increased mRNA levels of BnRSH1 and BnRSH3 in roots in comparisonto non-inoculated plants grown in salt stress [ 34]. Moreover, Givens et al. [ 350] observeda 10-fold increase in RSH2 protein level in N. tabacum after infecting the plant with thebacterial pathogen Erwinia carotovora .Microbes might directly and/or indirectly activate the stringent response in othermicroorganisms. A study on the effect of the pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani on therhizosphere microbiome of sugar beet ( Beta vulgaris L.) showed that in several rhizobacteria,the expression of genes involved in (p)ppGpp metabolism is upregulated. It is not clearwhether the activation of the stringent response in bacteria present in the rhizosphere istriggered directly by oxalic and phenylacetic acids secreted by R. solani or indirectly bysignaling molecules in root exudates [ 378]. Interestingly, the relA and relA/spoT mutants ofPseudomonas sp. DF41 and Pseudomonas chlororaphis PA23, showed increased antifungal ac-tivity against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum . All mutants produced an increased level of antifungalantibiotic pyrrolnitrin, lipase, and protease in comparison to wild-type bacteria. The lack of(p)ppGpp led also to reduced transcription of rpoS [379,380]. Selin et al. [ 381] showed thatexpression of rsmZ ,rsmE, and rsmA, i.e., elements involved in the regulation of several pro-cesses such as virulence, motility, and biocontrol abilities, was regulated via the stringentresponse in P . ﬂuorescens , a PGPB inhibiting the growth of a number of pathogenic fungiincluding S. sclerotiorum . Takeuchi et al. [ 382] reported that a mutant of P . ﬂuorescens CHA0lacking the ability to synthesize alarmones, produced signiﬁcantly fewer antibiotics andMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 24 of 47had lower biocontrol activity against P . ultimum . Moreover, the ability of the tested mutantto colonize cucumber roots, both in the presence and absence of P . ultimum , was reducedpossibly due to impaired motility. The stringent response was found to strongly inﬂuencethe production of antibiotics also in Streptomyces which are common members of the plantmicrobiome. Ochi [ 383] reported that relmutant of Streptomyces antibioticus showed induc-tion of phenoxazinone synthase, an enzyme involved in the production of actinomycin.Interestingly, this mutation did not affect the activity of another enzyme participating in thebiosynthesis of actinomycin, i.e., kynurenine formamidase. Moreover, RSH genes regulatedthe morphological and physiological differentiation of Streptomyces clavuligerus ; the lack of(p)ppGpp affected spore formation [384].Recent studies showed that the stringent response may play a crucial role in theinteraction between legumes and rhizobia. At the beginning of the interaction, legumesproduce antimicrobial compounds that lead to nutritional, osmotic, and oxidative stressin rhizobia [ 385–387]. Based on the literature, it might be hypothesized that in order tosurvive these unfavorable conditions, rhizobia activates the stringent response. Soybeaninoculated with the rsh knockout Bradyrhizobium diazoefﬁciens formed smaller nodules thanthose present in plants inoculated with wild-type B. diazoefﬁciens . Moreover, the biomass ofplants inoculated with mutant bacteria was smaller in comparison to wild-type bacteria,but still higher than the biomass of non-inoculated plants. Those results suggest thatthe lack of alarmone signaling altered nodulation and, as a consequence, decreased N 2ﬁxation. Interestingly, in plants co-inoculated with wild-type bacteria and the rshmutant inequal proportion, only 26% of nodules were infected by mutant bacteria. This observationstrongly suggests that the stringent response is crucial to win the competition for a nichewith other rhizobia [ 388]. In the early phase of nodulation, establishing a symbioticrelationship between rhizobia and legumes requires plant-bacteria signaling that allows therecognition of bacteria by the host. It was shown that relA mutant of Sinorhizobium melilotifailed to form nodules on M. sativa due to disturbed stringent response, but remarkablythe nodulation of Medicago truncatula Gaertn. was successful. The N 2ﬁxation capacityof mutant bacteria was reduced in comparison to the wild type. It is not clear why thereis a difference in nodulation between those two Medicago species; however, it might behypothesized that different plants inﬂuenced bacterial stringent response at different stagesof invasion [ 389]. Another study also found that S. meliloti mutant unable to synthesize(p)ppGpp did not establish a symbiotic relationship with M. sativa . The relA mutant ofS. meliloti produced more succinoglycan, an exopolysaccharide needed for colonizationof the host, than the wild-type bacteria [ 390]. The inactivation of relA inRhizobium etlicaused nodules on P . vulgaris form, but the level of nitrogen ﬁxation was signiﬁcantlyreduced. Mutants showed signiﬁcantly lower expression of raiIand cinI genes whichencode regulators of quorum sensing in rhizobia [ 391]. Calder ón-Flores et al. [ 392] reportedthat in P . vulgaris inoculated with R. etli, the rsh mutant nodulation and nitrogen ﬁxationwere disturbed. Qiu et al. [ 393] demonstrated that the addition of water-soluble humicmaterials into inoculum containing Sinorhizobium fredii signiﬁcantly downregulated RSHexpression, increased survivability of bacteria in soil, and promoted rhizoplane colonizationofGlycine max (L.) Merr.The stringent response is also a signiﬁcant mechanism contributing to the virulence ofvarious plant pathogens. A study on E. amylovora showed that cells of relA and relA/spoTmutants were signiﬁcantly longer both in nutrient-rich and nutrient-limited conditions incomparison to the wild type. Moreover, it was demonstrated that the proliferation rateofrelA/spoT mutant in pear fruits was 1000 times slower than the proliferation rate ofthe wild type. In minimal medium double, the relA/spoT mutant was unable to grow.Small-sized cells are more resistant to stress, and bigger relA/spoT knockouts are unableto survive on plant surfaces. It seems that (p)ppGpp are important regulators of cellgrowth in E. amylovora during plant infection [ 394]. A similar observation was madeforP . syringae , one of the most common plant pathogens. P . syringae single ( relA) anddouble ( relA/spoT ) knockout mutants grown on nutrient-rich medium were slightly biggerMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 25 of 47in comparison to the wild-type bacteria. An in vivo study demonstrated that relA/spoTmutants, even though they had bigger cells, were unable to survive on the surface of atomato leaf. These ﬁndings suggest that the stringent response is a crucial element of plantsurface colonization [ 395,396]. A great induction of relA and spoT genes in gram-negativebacterium Pectobacterium atrosepticum , able to degrade plant cell walls, was observed whenbacteria were grown in high-density culture in carbon-deﬁcient media [ 397,398]. Zhanget al. [ 399] reported that the Xanthomonas citri double knockout spoT /relA mutants showeda signiﬁcant decrease in pathogenicity and inhibited growth in planta. Interestingly, thedeletion of only the main alarmones synthase in the X. citri relA did not affect the virulenceof the bacterium.Several lines of evidence showed that the stringent response plays a crucial role inthe adaptation of bacterial growth and metabolism to nutrient-limited conditions. Thementioned studies above show the importance of the stringent response for the establish-ment of plant–PGPM interactions and proper functioning of the plant microbiome. Wehypothesize that the stringent response probably allows members of the microbiome tosurvive in unfavorable conditions during the ﬁrst stages of interaction establishment. Thedata about the possible role of alarmones in an intricate network of interactions betweenplants and microorganisms, among members of microbiomes, and between PGPM andplant pathogens are rather limited. The possible crucial role of the plant and the microbialstringent response in the functioning of microbiomes is an exciting but rather overlookedresearch area that needs further experiments.7.Trichoderma –Plant Interaction—A Case StudyAmong several other microbes belonging to the PGPM group, fungi from the genusTrichoderma are of great interest. Adaptability to unfavorable environmental conditionsand the ability to utilize many different substrates as nutrients determine the ubiquitousoccurrence of fungi belonging to Trichoderma in soils. It is estimated that one gram of soilcontains 10–103CFU (colony-forming unit) of fungi belonging to Trichoderma [400,401]. Itwas estimated that there are around 438 species in the genus Trichoderma , grouped into10 phylogenetic lineages: Brevicompactum, Deliquescens, Harzianum, Hypocreanum,Longibrachiatum, Polysporum, Psychrophilum, Semiorbis, Stromaticum, and Viride [ 402].Through interaction with plant fungi belonging to Trichoderma gains, a convenientniche for growth and development since root exudates are a rich source of carbon andother nutrients. The presence of fungi belonging to Trichoderma enhances growth andincreases yield [ 403,404], improves uptake of nutrients by plants [ 405,406], and leads toa higher vigor and germination ratio of seeds [ 407,408]. In addition, fungi belonging toTrichoderma increase the level of photosynthesis [ 409], the level of amino acid synthesis [ 410],the level of transpiration [ 411], and the water content in tissues in drought conditions [ 412].Fungi from the genus Trichoderma can colonize the roots of mono- [ 56,57,413] and di-cots [ 58,131,132] and when plants are grown in acidic soils [ 414], alkaline soils [ 415,416], andsoils contaminated with heavy metals [ 417,418].Trichoderma are potential symbionts of non-mycorrhizal plants belonging to Brassicaceae [59],Chenopodiaceae [302],Caryophyllaceae [419] ,Polygonaceae [420] , and others. Recently, marine isolates of Trichoderma have been iden-tiﬁed [ 421–425], which have the potential to serve as plant growth-promoting fungi forplants grown in saline soils [ 426]. Several mechanisms have been shown to contributeto the promotion of plant growth and development by fungi belonging to Trichoderma .Colonization of plants by Trichoderma changes host proteome [ 413] and secretome [ 427],affecting the level of synthesis of phytohormones [ 428] in soluble sugars [ 409] and phenoliccompounds [ 173,429]. The inoculation of A. thaliana seedlings with Trichoderma virens andTrichoderma atroviride increased biomass production and promoted lateral root growth.Mutations in plant genes involved in auxin transport and signaling, i.e., AUX1, BIG,EIR1 , and AXR1 caused reduced stimulation of root growth and development by testedTrichoderma isolates [ 92]. Fungi belonging to Trichoderma compete with pathogens for eco-logical niches and nutrients, which efﬁciently limits the growth of pathogens. SecretingMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 26 of 47antibiotics, siderophores, a range of volatile and non-volatile metabolites (n-alkanes, cyclo-hexane, cyclopentane, esters, alcohols, sulfur-containing compounds, pyrane, and benzenederivatives), and through mycoparasitism fungi belonging to Trichoderma, protect plantsagainst various pathogens, such as R. solani [430–432],Rhizopus oryzae [433],Fusariumspp. [ 434,435],Alternaria alternate [436],S. sclerotiorum [432,437],Botrytis cinerea [438,439],Pythium spp. [ 433], and Ustilago maydis [440]. Several secondary metabolites produced byfungi belonging to Trichoderma peptaibols seem to be of great importance for Trichodermabiocontrol activity. Peptaibols are amphipathic polypeptides composed of 5–10 aminoacids with molecular masses between 500 and 2200 Da. These non-ribosomally syn-thesized polypeptides contain not only typical amino acids but also non-proteinogenicamino acids and -aminoisobutyric acid. Peptaibols are synthesized not only by fungi be-longing to Trichoderma but also by other soil-born fungi as well as by plant-pathogenfungi [ 441,442]. Several lines of evidence have conﬁrmed that peptaibols exhibit an-tibacterial and antifungal properties. Trichoderma pseudokoningii produces trichokoninVI that induces apoptotic cell death in F. oxysporum [443]. Trichokonins A producedbyTrichoderma longibrachiatum damages the cell membrane of Gram-negative pathogenicbacteria Xanthomonas oryzae pv.Oryzae , leading to a signiﬁcant reduction of the pathogenic-ity of these bacteria [ 444]. The same inhibitory effect was observed for several otherpeptaibols produced by various Trichoderma species against a range of plant pathogens,e.g., B. cinerea [445],Septoria tritici [446] ,A. solani , and R. solani [447]. Moreover, it wasalso demonstrated that peptaibols can act against viruses. Luo et al. [ 448] showed that tri-chokonins isolated from T. pseudokoningii induces resistance of tobacco against the tobaccomosaic virus probably via induction of reactive oxygen species and phenolic compoundproduction. Peptaibols isolated from T. virens might act as elicitors and induce a defenseresponse in cucumber against pathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas syringae pv.lachrymans viaup-regulation of hydroxyperoxide lyase, phenylalanine ammonia lyase, and peroxidasegene expression. In addition, T. virens mutant tex1 lacking one of the non-ribosomal peptidesynthetases was less effective in the inhibition of P . syringae pv.lachrymans growth [ 247].It should be pointed out that high concentrations of peptaibols might have a negativeimpact on the growth of plants, as shown for peptaibols produces by Trichoderma reeseiand their negative effect on A. thaliana . However, peptaibols at lower concentrations arestill sufﬁcient to inhibit the growth of plant pathogens with no adverse effect on plantgrowth [449].Moreover, some strains of Trichoderma can induce ISR (induced systemic resistance)and/or SAR (systemic acquired resistance) in the host plant through the secretion offungal elicitors. Shoresh et al. [ 450] demonstrated that the treatment of cucumber with T.asperellum T203 activated ISR via the JA/ethylene signaling pathway. Inoculated plantswere more resistant to P . syringae than non-inoculated control plants. Another studyshowed that soil inoculation with T. harzianum enhanced tomato defense against root-knotnematode ( Meloidogyne incognita ) by SAR activation and increased ethylene synthesis [ 132].Inoculation of canola with T. harzianum TH12 triggered SAR and ISR defense mechanismsand decreased the severity of disease symptoms caused by S. sclerotiorum [132]. Changesin host cells caused by inoculation with Trichoderma are also visible in tissues distant fromthe penetration site. Yedidia et al. [ 451] demonstrated that the cell walls of cucumber rootepidermis and cortical cells after T. harzianum inoculation were strengthened also beyondthe penetration site. The activity of plant peroxidases and chitinases was upregulated by thepresence of a fungus both in roots and leaves. These ﬁndings are in agreement with the factthat microbial invasion of host plant cells induces systemic resistance mechanisms. Huanget al. [ 452] reported that inoculation of cucumber with T. harzianum SQR-T37 signiﬁcantlypromoted growth as well as suppressed the damping off disease caused by R. solani . Itwas shown that the main mechanism of biocontrol was mycoparasitism. Between thepathogen and T. harzianum SQR-T37, a direct interaction was observed. The hyphae ofT. harzianum were densely coiled, and hooks and appressorium-like bodies were formed. Asa consequence, the cell walls of R. solani were broken and leakage of cytoplasm was noted.Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 27 of 47Fungi belonging to Trichoderma are able to colonize plants due to the mechanismsallowing the recognition and the adhesion to the surface of the root (Figure 2). Moreover,these fungi are able to penetrate the root tissues and suppress the plant’s immune systemin order to avoid strong responses from the host, as reviewed in [ 453,454]. The plant’s im-mune system recognizes Trichoderma MAMPs, including swolenin [ 250], alamethicin [ 455],xylanase [ 456], cellulases [ 457], and polygalacturonase [ 458]. Plant responses to MAMPs arequick and transitional in the early stages, they involve ion level ﬂuctuation, overproductionof ROS, nitric oxide, and ethylene [ 459]. Later stages involve the production of calluswall and antifungal compounds and, as a consequence, further penetration of the plantby hyphae is stopped [ 429,460]. It was demonstrated that salicylic acid has a particularrole in callus synthesis during the colonization of plants by fungi. In a A. thaliana sid2(salicylic acid induction-deﬁcient2) mutant with a disturbed SA signalization, T. harzianumpenetrated root vascular tissues whereas in wild-type plants, penetration of plants by fungiwere restricted to outer root layers [ 460]. Inoculation of Z. mays with T. virens causedthe reduction of plant secretome by 36%, which deprives plants of essential signalingmolecules and proteins crucial for proper plant growth and development. At the sametime, a fungus secretes similar compounds which do not activate the plant’s immunesystem [ 427]. The ability to colonize plant tissues by Trichoderma is tightly linked withthe fungal capacity to tolerate secreted plants’ antimicrobial compounds [ 459]. An ABCtransporter system is crucial for the resistance of Trichoderma to antifungal compoundssecreted by plant pathogens. Deletion in the Taabc2 gene in T. atrioviride caused the loss ofthe ability of the fungus to protect the tomato against P . ultimum and R. solani attacks [ 461].Another mechanism exploited by fungi belonging to Trichoderma is directly decreasing thesynthesis of the antifungal compound. For example, Masunaka et al. [ 462] reported thatinoculation of Lotus japonicus L. with Trichoderma koningi down-regulated the production ofisoﬂavonoid vesitol, i.e., the main phytoalexin produced by lotus species. Fungi belongingtoTrichoderma were found proﬁcient in the degradation of allelochemicals secreted byplants which exhibit fungitoxicity to a number of fungi [173].Adhesion of fungi belonging to Trichoderma to the surface of plants is mediated byhydrophobins, i.e., small, cysteine-rich hydrophobic proteins (Figure 2). Hydrophobinsare synthesized by ﬁlamentous fungi. The amino acid sequence of hydrophobins is highlyevolutionarily conserved. Hydrophobins are classiﬁed into two classes based on thearrangement of cysteine residues, differences in solubility, and physical properties. Hy-drophobins form amphipathic monolayers at hydrophobic-hydrophilic interfaces. Thoseproteins are involved in the formation of aerial hyphae, fruiting bodies, and spores asreviewed in [ 463,464]. It was shown that class I hydrophobins produced by T. asperel-lum enabled adhesion to cucumber roots. The authors hypothesized that hydrophobinsprotect hyphae against antimicrobial compounds were secreted by the host during col-onization [ 244]. Inoculation of tomato and cucumber with a T. harzianum mutant witha deletion in the gene encoding hydrophobin showed that the mutant fungi were ableto colonize the roots of both plants; however, the lateral roots were signiﬁcantly shorterthan those present in plants inoculated with the wild-type fungus [ 245]. Further pene-tration of roots by hyphae is possible due to fungal proteolytic enzymes, e.g., aspartylprotease (PapA) [ 465], and cellulolytic enzymes, e.g., endopolygalacturonase (ThPG1) [ 458],and arabinofuranosidases (Abf1, Abf2) [ 465] that allow for degradation of the plant cellwall. Another important element allowing Trichoderma for tissue penetration are swolenins(Figure 2), i.e., proteins possessing a cellulose-binding domain (CBD), similar to plantproteins—expansins. Swollenins disrupt the structure of the cellulose which results inchanges to the plant cell wall architecture and the expansion of intercellular space [ 466].Swollenins facilitate penetration of apoplast by the hyphae and give fungi an advantageduring the competition for the niche with other microbes. Brotman et al. [ 250] reported thatT. asperellum overexpressing swollenin showed a signiﬁcantly improved ability to colonizecucumber roots, whereas swolenin knockout mutants showed a reduced ability to colonizeroots. Moreover, it was found that the CBD domain acts as the MAMP , and can induceMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 28 of 47plant defense against B. cinerae and P . syringae . Similarly, T. atroviride overexpressing theswolenin-coding gene Taswo1 improved the colonization rate and enhanced the growth oftomatoes and peppers. Moreover, the induction of the plant immune system was strongerby mutants overexpressing swollenins than by knockouts and wild-type fungi [467].Metabolites 2022 , 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW  29 of 47    Figure 2. Colonization of root by  a fungus belonging to  Trichoderma . Adhesion and protection of hyphae are mediated by  the layer of hydrophobins, whereas lytic enzymes enable penetration of the epidermis. Swollenin s facilitate penetration of apoplast through an expansion -like effect on plant cell walls. Recognition of Trichoderma -derived MAMP molecules (swollenins, hydrophobi ns, cellulolytic enzymes, and chitin) trigger s plant responses to infection , i.e., synthesis of antimicrobial compounds (defensins and phytoanticipins) , synthesis of the callose wall in order to physically in-hibit further penetration , and overproduction of  ROS  and possibly also alarmones . See text for more details.  Author Contributions:  Conceptualization, G.B.D .; investigation, M.A.  and A.M. -A.; data curation, M.A. ; writing —original draft preparation, M.A.  and G.B.D. ; writing —review and editing, G.B.D. and A.M. -A.; supervision, G.B.D . and A.M. -A.; funding acquisition G.B.D . and A.M. -A. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.  Funding:  This research received no external funding.  Conflicts of Interest:  The authors declare no conflict of interest . References  1. Al-Ani, L.K.T. Trichoderma : Beneficial role in sustainable agriculture by plant disease management. In Plant Microbiome: Stress Response ; Egamberdieva, D., Ahmad, P., Eds.; Springer : Singapore, 2018; Volume 5, pp. 105 –126. 2. Weltje, L.; Simpson, P.; Gross, M.; Crane, M.; Wheeler, J.R. Comparative acute and chronic sensitivity of fish and amphibians : A critical review of data. Environ. Toxicol. Chem.  2013 , 32, 984–994. 3. Mukherjee, R.K.; Kumar, V.; Roy, K. Chemometric modeling of plant protection products (PPPs) for the prediction of acute contact toxicity against honey bees ( A. mellifera ): A 2D -QSAR approach. J. Hazard. Mater.  2022 , 423, 127230 . 4. Bruni, I.; Gent ili, R.; de Mattia, F.; Cortis, P.; Rossi, G.; Labra, M. A multi -level analysis to evaluate the extinction risk of and conservation strategy for the aquatic fern Marsilea quadrifolia  L. in Europe. Aquat. Bot.  2013 , 111, 35–42. Figure 2. Colonization of root by a fungus belonging to Trichoderma . Adhesion and protection ofhyphae are mediated by the layer of hydrophobins, whereas lytic enzymes enable penetration of theepidermis. Swollenins facilitate penetration of apoplast through an expansion-like effect on plant cellwalls. Recognition of Trichoderma -derived MAMP molecules (swollenins, hydrophobins, cellulolyticenzymes, and chitin) triggers plant responses to infection, i.e., synthesis of antimicrobial compounds(defensins and phytoanticipins), synthesis of the callose wall in order to physically inhibit furtherpenetration, and overproduction of ROS and possibly also alarmones. See text for more details.Sucrose plays important role in plant colonization by Trichoderma . As demonstratedby Mac ías-Rodr íguez et al. [ 468], the concentration of carbohydrates, mainly arabinose,xylose, myo-inositol, fructose, and glucose in root exudates of L. esculentum is higherbefore colonization by T. atrioviride . Colonization of the root by T. atrioviride changed theexudation pattern and sucrose became a major component of exudates. Root-derivedsucrose speciﬁcally enables better growth of fungi belonging to Trichoderma, since AMFfungi prefer glucose and fructose as a source of carbon. Analysis of the proteome of maizeMetabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 29 of 47inoculated with T. harzianum T22 showed that 40 proteins involved in carbohydrate/starchmetabolism were upregulated and 13 proteins were downregulated, which suggests thatT. harzianum is able to modulate carbohydrate metabolism in colonized roots [ 413].T. virenswas shown to produce invertase that hydrolyses plant-derived sucrose. The sucrolyticactivity of fungal cells is crucial for root colonization but also to increase the photosyntheticrate in maize leaves [409].Author Contributions: Conceptualization, G.B.D.; investigation, M.A. and A.M.-A.; data curation,M.A.; writing—original draft preparation, M.A. and G.B.D.; writing—review and editing, G.B.D. andA.M.-A.; supervision, G.B.D. and A.M.-A.; funding acquisition G.B.D. and A.M.-A. All authors haveread and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research received no external funding.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Al-Ani, L.K.T. Trichoderma : Beneﬁcial role in sustainable agriculture by plant disease management. In Plant Microbiome: StressResponse ; Egamberdieva, D., Ahmad, P ., Eds.; Springer: Singapore, 2018; Volume 5, pp. 105–126.2. Weltje, L.; Simpson, P .; Gross, M.; Crane, M.; Wheeler, J.R. Comparative acute and chronic sensitivity of ﬁsh and amphibians: Acritical review of data. Environ. Toxicol. Chem. 2013 ,32, 984–994. [CrossRef]3. Mukherjee, R.K.; Kumar, V .; Roy, K. Chemometric modeling of plant protection products (PPPs) for the prediction of acute contacttoxicity against honey bees ( A. mellifera ): A 2D-QSAR approach. J. Hazard. Mater. 2022 ,423, 127230. [CrossRef]4. Bruni, I.; Gentili, R.; de Mattia, F.; Cortis, P .; Rossi, G.; Labra, M. A multi-level analysis to evaluate the extinction risk of andconservation strategy for the aquatic fern Marsilea quadrifolia L. in Europe. Aquat. Bot. 2013 ,111, 35–42. [CrossRef]5. Matarczyk, J.A.; Willis, A.J.; Vranjic, J.A.; Ash, J.E. Herbicides, weeds and endangered species: Management of bitou bush(Chrysanthemoides monilifera ssp. rotundata) with glyphosate and impacts on the endangered shrub. Pimelea spicata. Biol. Conserv.2002 ,108, 133–141.6. Bikrol, A.; Saxena, N.; Singh, K. Response of Glycine max in relation to nitrogen ﬁxation as inﬂuenced by fungicide seed treatment.Int. J. Biochem. Biotechnol. 2020 ,9, 1–5.7. Santos, M.S.; Rodrigues, T.F.; Ferreira, E.; Megias, M.; Nogueira, M.A.; Hungria, M. Method for recovering and counting viablecells from maize seeds inoculated with Azospirillum brasilense .J. Pure Appl. Microbiol. 2020 ,14, 195–204. [CrossRef]8. Zilli, J. É.; Ribeiro, K.G.; Campo, R.J.; Hungria, M. Inﬂuence of fungicide seed treatment on soybean nodulation and grain yield.Rev. Bras. Cienc. Solo 2009 ,33, 917–923. [CrossRef]9. Streletskii, R.; Astaykina, A.; Krasnov, G.; Gorbatov, V . Changes in bacterial and fungal community of soil under treatment ofpesticides. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 124. [CrossRef]10. Santoyo, G.; Guzm án-Guzm án, P .; Parra-Cota, F.I.; de los Santos-Villalobos, S.; del Carmen Orozco-Mosqueda, M.; Glick, B.R.Plant growth stimulation by microbial consortia. Agronomy 2021 ,11, 219. [CrossRef]11. Chaudhary, T.; Dixit, M.; Gera, R.; Shukla, A.K.; Prakash, A.; Gupta, G.; Shukla, P . Techniques for improving formulations ofbioinoculants. 3 Biotech. 2020 ,10, 199. [CrossRef]12. Romano, I.; Ventorino, V .; Pepe, O. Effectiveness of plant beneﬁcial microbes: Overview of the methodological approaches for theassessment of root colonization and persistence. Front. Plant Sci. 2020 ,11, 6. [CrossRef]13. Maitra, S.; Brestic, M.; Bhadra, P .; Shankar, T.; Praharaj, S.; Palai, J.B.; Shah, M.M.R.; Barek, V .; Ondrisik, P .; Skalick ý, M.; et al.Bioinoculants-natural biological resources for sustainable plant production. Microorganisms 2022 ,10, 51. [CrossRef]14. Basu, A.; Prasad, P .; Das, S.N.; Kalam, S.; Sayyed, R.Z.; Reddy, M.S.; Enshasy, H. Plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) asgreen bioinoculants: Recent developments, constraints, and prospects. Sustainability 2021 ,13, 1140. [CrossRef]15. Martínez-Hidalgo, P .; Maymon, M.; Pule-Meulenberg, F.; Hirsch, A.M. Engineering root microbiomes for healthier crops and soilsusing beneﬁcial, environmentally safe bacteria. Can. J. Microbiol. 2019 ,65, 91–104. [CrossRef]16. Cai, F.; Chen, W.; Wei, Z.; Pang, G.; Li, R.; Ran, W.; Shen, Q. Colonization of Trichoderma harzianum strain SQR-T037 on tomatoroots and its relationship to plant growth, nutrient availability and soil microﬂora. Plant Soil 2015 ,388, 337–350. [CrossRef]17. Rojas-Tapias, D.F.; Bonilla, R.; Duss án, J. Effect of inoculation and co-inoculation of Acinetobacter sp. RG30 and Pseudomonas putidaGN04 on growth, ﬁtness, and copper accumulation of maize ( Zea mays ).Water Air Soil Pollut. 2014 ,225, 2232. [CrossRef]18. Patel, P .; Gajjar, H.; Joshi, B.; Krishnamurthy, R.; Amaresan, N. Inoculation of salt-tolerant Acinetobacter sp. (RSC9) improves thesugarcane ( Saccharum sp. hybrids) growth under salinity stress condition. Sugar Tech 2022 ,24, 494–501. [CrossRef]19. Chihaoui, S.A.; Trabelsi, D.; Jdey, A.; Mhadhbi, H.; Mhamdi, R. Inoculation of Phaseolus vulgaris with the nodule-endophyteAgrobacterium sp. 10C2 affects richness and structure of rhizosphere bacterial communities and enhances nodulation and growth.Arch. Microbiol. 2015 ,197, 805–813. [CrossRef]20. Sharma, M.; Mishra, V .; Rau, N.; Sharma, R.S. Increased iron-stress resilience of maize through inoculation of siderophore-producing Arthrobacter globiformis from mine. J. Basic Microbiol. 2016 ,56, 719–735. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 30 of 4721. Fan, P .; Chen, D.; He, Y.; Zhou, Q.; Tian, Y.; Gao, L. Alleviating salt stress in tomato seedlings using Arthrobacter and Bacillusmegaterium isolated from the rhizosphere of wild plants grown on saline–alkaline lands. Int. J. Phytoremediation 2016 ,18, 1113–1121.[CrossRef]22. Parmasi, Z.; Tahmasebi, Z.; Zare, M.J.; Nourollahi, K.; Kanouni, H. Biocontrol of Ascochyta blight by Azospirillum sp. dependingon the degree of resistance of chickpea genotypes. J. Phytopathol. 2019 ,167, 601–607. [CrossRef]23. Mazhar, R.; Ilyas, N.; Saeed, M.; Bibi, F.; Batool, N. Biocontrol and salinity tolerance potential of Azospirillum lipoferum and itsinoculation effect in wheat crop. Int. J. Agric. Biol. 2015 ,18, 494–500. [CrossRef]24. Shirinbayan, S.; Khosravi, H.; Malakouti, M.J. Alleviation of drought stress in maize ( Zea mays ) by inoculation with Azotobacterstrains isolated from semi-arid regions. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2019 ,133, 138–145. [CrossRef]25. Chen, L.; Liu, Y.; Wu, G.; Njeri, K.V .; Shen, Q.; Zhang, N.; Zhang, R. Induced maize salt tolerance by rhizosphere inoculation ofBacillus amyloliquefaciens SQR9. Physiol. Plant. 2016 ,158, 34–44. [CrossRef]26. Hafeez, F.Y.; Safdar, M.E.; Chaudhry, A.U.; Malik, K.A. Rhizobial inoculation improves seedling emergence, nutrient uptake andgrowth of cotton. Aust. J. Exp. Agric. 2004 ,44, 617–622. [CrossRef]27. Naveed, M.; Hussain, M.B.; Zahir, Z.A.; Mitter, B.; Sessitsch, A. Drought stress amelioration in wheat through inoculation withBurkholderia phytoﬁrmans strain PsJN. Plant Growth Regul. 2014 ,73, 121–131. [CrossRef]28. Bernabeu, P .R.; Pistorio, M.; Torres-Tejerizo, G.; Estrada-De los Santos, P .; Galar, M.L.; Boiardi, J.L.; Luna, M.F. Colonization andplant growth-promotion of tomato by Burkholderia tropica .Sci. Hortic. 2015 ,191, 113–120. [CrossRef]29. Tsuda, K.; Kosaka, Y.; Tsuge, S.; Kub, Y.; Horin, O. Evaluation of the endophyte Enterobacter cloacae SM10 isolated from spinachroots for biological control against Fusarium wilt of spinach. J. Gen. Plant Pathol. 2001 ,67, 78–84. [CrossRef]30. Ngom, M.; Gray, K.; Diagne, N.; Oshone, R.; Fardoux, J.; Gherbi, H.; Hocher, V .; Svistoonoff, S.; Laplaze, L.; Tisa, L.S.; et al.Symbiotic performance of diverse Frankia strains on salt-stressed Casuarina glauca and Casuarina equisetifolia plants. Front. PlantSci.2016 ,7, 1331. [CrossRef]31. Grossi, C.E.M.; Fantino, E.; Serral, F.; Zawoznik, M.S.; Fernandez Do Porto, D.A.; Ulloa, R.M. Methylobacterium sp. 2A is a plantgrowth-promoting rhizobacteria that has the potential to improve potato crop yield under adverse conditions. Front. Plant Sci.2020 ,11, 71. [CrossRef]32. Hernández-Montiel, L.G.; Chiquito-Contreras, C.J.; Murillo-Amador, B.; Vidal-Hern ández, L.; Quiñones-Aguilar, E.E.; Chiquito-Contreras, R.G. Efﬁciency of two inoculation methods of Pseudomonas putida on growth and yield of tomato plants. J. Soil Sci.Plant Nutr. 2017 ,17, 1003–1012. [CrossRef]33. Fu, Q.; Liu, C.; Ding, N.; Lin, Y.; Guo, B. Ameliorative effects of inoculation with the plant growth-promoting rhizobacteriumPseudomonas sp. DW1 on growth of eggplant ( Solanum melongena L.) seedlings under salt stress. Agric. Water Manag. 2010 ,97,1994–2000. [CrossRef]34. Szyma ´ nska, S.; D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Tyburski, J.; Niedojadło, K.; Piernik, A.; Hrynkiewicz, K. Boosting the Brassica napus L. toleranceto salinity by the halotolerant strain Pseudomonas stutzeri ISE12. Environ. Exp. Bot. 2019 ,163, 55–68. [CrossRef]35. Biswas, J.C.; Ladha, J.K.; Dazzo, F.B. Rhizobia inoculation improves nutrient uptake and growth of lowland rice. Soil Sci. Soc. Am.J.2000 ,64, 1644–1650. [CrossRef]36. Biswas, J.C.; Ladha, J.K.; Dazzo, F.B.; Yanni, Y.G.; Rolfe, B.G. Rhizobial inoculation inﬂuences seedling vigor and yield of rice.Agron. J. 2000 ,92, 880–886. [CrossRef]37. Turhan, E.; Kiran, S.; Ates, Ç.; Ates, O.; Kusvuran, S.; Ellialtioglu, S.S. Ameliorative effects of inoculation with Serratia marcescensand grafting on growth of eggplant seedlings under salt stress. J. Plant Nutr. 2020 ,43, 594–603. [CrossRef]38. Palaniyandi, S.A.; Damodharan, K.; Yang, S.H.; Suh, J.W. Streptomyces sp. strain PGPA39 alleviates salt stress and promotesgrowth of ‘Micro Tom’ tomato plants. J. Appl. Microbiol. 2014 ,117, 766–773. [CrossRef]39. Samac, D.A.; Kinkel, L.L. Suppression of the root-lesion nematode ( Pratylenchus penetrans ) in alfalfa ( Medicago sativa ) by Strepto-myces spp. Plant Soil 2001 ,235, 35–44. [CrossRef]40. Mauricio-Castillo, J.A.; Salas-Muñoz, S.; Reveles-Torres, L.R.; Salas-Luevano, M.A.; Salazar-Badillo, F.B. Could Alternaria solaniIA300 be a plant growth-promoting fungus? Eur. J. Plant Pathol. 2020 ,157, 413–419. [CrossRef]41. Galeano, R.M.S.; Franco, D.G.; Chaves, P .O.; Giannesi, G.C.; Masui, D.C.; Ruller, R.; Corr êa, B.O.; da Silva Brasil, M.; Zanoelo, F.F.Plant growth promoting potential of endophytic Aspergillus niger 9-p isolated from native forage grass in Pantanal of Nhecol ândiaregion, Brazil. Rhizosphere 2021 ,18, 100332. [CrossRef]42. Khan, A.L.; Hamayun, M.; Kim, Y.H.; Kang, S.M.; Lee, J.H.; Lee, I.J. Gibberellins producing endophytic Aspergillus fumigatussp. LH02 inﬂuenced endogenous phytohormonal levels, isoﬂavonoids production and plant growth in salinity stress. ProcessBiochem. 2011 ,46, 440–447. [CrossRef]43. D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Garstecka, Z.; Trejgell, A.; D ˛ abrowski, H.P .; Konieczna, W.; Szyp-Borowska, I. The impact of forest fungi onpromoting growth and development of Brassica napus L.Agronomy 2021 ,11, 2475. [CrossRef]44. Velásquez, A.; Vega-Celed ón, P .; Fiaschi, G.; Agnolucci, M.; Avio, L.; Giovannetti, M.; D’Onofrio, C.; Seeger, M. Responses ofVitis vinifera cv. Cabernet Sauvignon roots to the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Funneliformis mosseae and the plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium Ensifer meliloti include changes in volatile organic compounds. Mycorrhiza 2020 ,30, 161–170. [CrossRef]45. Saldajeno, M.G.B.; Hyakumachi, M. The plant growth-promoting fungus Fusarium equiseti and the arbuscular mycorrhizalfungus Glomus mosseae stimulate plant growth and reduce severity of anthracnose and damping-off diseases in cucumber(Cucumis sativus ) seedlings. Ann. Appl. Biol. 2011 ,159, 28–40. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 31 of 4746. Radhakrishnan, R.; Khan, A.L.; Kang, S.M.; Lee, I.J. A comparative study of phosphate solubilization and the host plant growthpromotion ability of Fusarium verticillioides RK01 and Humicola sp. KNU01 under salt stress. Ann. Microbiol. 2015 ,65, 585–593.[CrossRef]47. Estaún, V .; Camprub í, A.; Calvet, C.; Pinochet, J. Nursery and ﬁeld response of olive trees inoculated with two arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi, Glomus intraradices and Glomus mosseae .J. Am. Soc. Hortic. Sci. 2003 ,128, 767–775. [CrossRef]48. Senthil Kumar, C.M.; Jacob, T.K.; Devasahayam, S.; Thomas, S.; Geethu, C. Multifarious plant growth promotion by anentomopathogenic fungus Lecanicillium psalliotae .Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,207, 153–160. [CrossRef]49. Ozimek, E.; Jaroszuk- ´Sciseł, J.; Bohacz, J.; Korniłłowicz-Kowalska, T.; Ty´ skiewicz, R.; Słomka, A.; Nowak, A.; Hanaka, A. Synthesisof indoleacetic acid, gibberellic acid and ACC-deaminase by Mortierella strains promote winter wheat seedlings growth underdifferent conditions. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 3218. [CrossRef]50. Rozp ˛ adek, P .; Domka, A.; Wa ˙zny, R.; Nosek, M.; J˛ edrzejczyk, R.; Tokarz, K.; Turnau, K. How does the endophytic fungus Mucorsp. improve Arabidopsis arenosa vegetation in the degraded environment of a mine dump? Environ. Exp. Bot. 2018 ,147, 31–42.[CrossRef]51. Vessey, J.K.; Heisinger, K.G. Effect of Penicillium bilaii inoculation and phosphorus fertilisation on root and shoot parameters ofﬁeld-grown pea. Can. J. Microbiol. 2011 ,81, 361–366. [CrossRef]52. Wakelin, S.A.; Gupta, V .V .S.R.; Harvey, P .R.; Ryder, M.H. The effect of Penicillium fungi on plant growth and phosphorusmobilization in neutral to alkaline soils from southern Australia. Can. J. Microbiol. 2007 ,53, 106–115. [CrossRef]53. Elsharkawy, M.M. Induced systemic resistance against Cucumber mosaic virus by Phoma sp. GS8-2 stimulates transcription ofpathogenesis-related genes in Arabidopsis .Pest. Manag. Sci. 2019 ,75, 859–866. [CrossRef]54. Elsharkawy, M.M.; El-Khateeb, N.M.M. Antifungal activity and resistance induction against Sclerotium cepivorum by plantgrowth-promoting fungi in onion plants. Egypt. J. Biol. Pest Control 2019 ,29, 68. [CrossRef]55. Baron, N.C.; de Souza Pollo, A.; Rigobelo, E.C. Purpureocillium lilacinum and Metarhizium marquandii as plant growth-promotingfungi. PeerJ 2020 ,2020 , e9005. [CrossRef]56. Janowska, B.; Andrzejak, R.; Kosiada, T. The inﬂuence of fungi of the Trichoderma genus on the ﬂowering of Freesia refracta Klatt‘Argentea’ in winter. Hortic. Sci. 2020 ,47, 203–210. [CrossRef]57. Vinayarani, G.; Prakash, H.S. Fungal endophytes of turmeric ( Curcuma longa L.) and their biocontrol potential against pathogensPythium aphanidermatum and Rhizoctonia solani .World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,34, 49. [CrossRef]58. Nuangmek, W.; Aiduang, W.; Kumla, J.; Lumyong, S.; Suwannarach, N. Evaluation of a newly identiﬁed endophytic fungus,Trichoderma phayaoense for plant growth promotion and biological control of gummy stem blight and wilt of muskmelon. Front.Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 410. [CrossRef]59. Znajewska, Z.; D ˛ abrowska, G.; Narbutt, O. Trichoderma viride strains stimulating the growth and development of winter rapeseed(Brassica napus L.).Prog. Plant Prot. 2018 ,58, 264–269.60. Singh, D.P .; Prabha, R.; Yandigeri, M.S.; Arora, D.K. Cyanobacteria-mediated phenylpropanoids and phytohormones in rice(Oryza sativa ) enhance plant growth and stress tolerance. Anton. Leeuw. Int. J. 2011 ,100, 557–568. [CrossRef]61. Prasanna, R.; Chaudhary, V .; Gupta, V .; Babu, S.; Kumar, A.; Singh, R.; Shivay, Y.S.; Nain, L. Cyanobacteria mediated plant growthpromotion and bioprotection against Fusarium wilt in tomato. Eur. J. Plant Pathol. 2013 ,136, 337–353. [CrossRef]62. Priya, H.; Prasanna, R.; Ramakrishnan, B.; Bidyarani, N.; Babu, S.; Thapa, S.; Renuka, N. Inﬂuence of cyanobacterial inoculationon the culturable microbiome and growth of rice. Microbiol. Res. 2015 ,171, 78–89. [CrossRef]63. Babu, S.; Prasanna, R.; Bidyarani, N.; Singh, R. Analysing the colonisation of inoculated cyanobacteria in wheat plants usingbiochemical and molecular tools. J. Appl. Phycol. 2015 ,27, 327–338. [CrossRef]64. Kim, S.J.; Ko, E.J.; Hong, J.K.; Jeun, Y.C. Ultrastructures of Colletotrichum orbiculare in cucumber leaves expressing systemicacquired resistance mediated by Chlorella fusca .Plant Pathol. J. 2018 ,34, 113. [CrossRef]65. Mohamed Taha, T.; Youssef, M.A. Improvement of growth parameters of Zea mays and properties of soil inoculated with twoChlorella species. Rep. Opin. 2015 ,7, 22–27.66. Agwa, O.K.; Ogugbue, C.J.; Williams, E.E. Growth promotion of Telfairia occidentalis by application of Chlorella vulgaris (bioinocu-lant) colonized seeds and soil under tropical ﬁeld conditions. Am. J. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 403–415. [CrossRef]67. Kuang, X.; Gu, J.D.; Tie, B.Q.; Yao, B.; Shao, J. Interactive effects of cadmium and Microcystis aeruginosa (cyanobacterium) onthe growth, antioxidative responses and accumulation of cadmium and microcystins in rice seedlings. Ecotoxicology 2016 ,25,1588–1599. [CrossRef]68. Hussain, A.; Hamayun, M.; Shah, S.T. Root colonization and phytostimulation by phytohormones producing entophytic Nostocsp. AH-12. Curr. Microbiol. 2013 ,67, 624–630. [CrossRef]69. Maqubela, M.P .; Mnkeni, P .N.S.; Issa, O.M.; Pardo, M.T.; D’Acqui, L.P . Nostoc cyanobacterial inoculation in South Africanagricultural soils enhances soil structure, fertility, and maize growth. Plant Soil 2009 ,315, 79–92. [CrossRef]70. Barone, V .; Puglisi, I.; Fragal à, F.; lo Piero, A.R.; Giuffrida, F.; Baglieri, A. Novel bioprocess for the cultivation of microalgae inhydroponic growing system of tomato plants. J. Appl. Phycol. 2019 ,31, 465–470. [CrossRef]71. Seiﬁkalhor, M.; Hassani, S.B.; Aliniaeifard, S. Seed priming by cyanobacteria ( Spirulina platensis ) and salep gum enhances toleranceof maize plant against cadmium toxicity. J. Plant Growth Regul. 2020 ,39, 1009–1021. [CrossRef]72. Rana, A.; Joshi, M.; Prasanna, R.; Shivay, Y.S.; Nain, L. Biofortiﬁcation of wheat through inoculation of plant growth promotingrhizobacteria and cyanobacteria. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 2012 ,50, 118–126. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 32 of 4773. Flores, A.C.; Luna, A.A.E.; Portugal, V .O. Yield and quality enhancement of marigold ﬂowers by inoculation with Bacillus subtilisand Glomus fasciculatum .J. Sustain. Agric. 2007 ,31, 21–31. [CrossRef]74. Nacoon, S.; Jogloy, S.; Riddech, N.; Mongkolthanaruk, W.; Kuyper, T.W.; Boonlue, S. Interaction between phosphate solubilizingbacteria and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on growth promotion and tuber inulin content of Helianthus tuberosus L.Sci. Rep. 2020 ,10, 4916. [CrossRef]75. Oliveira, R.S.; Carvalho, P .; Marques, G.; Ferreira, L.; Nunes, M.; Rocha, I.; Ma, Y.; Carvalho, M.F.; Vos átka, M.; Freitas, H.Increased protein content of chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and nitrogen-ﬁxingbacteria under water deﬁcit conditions. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2017 ,97, 4379–4385. [CrossRef]76. Bona, E.; Cantamessa, S.; Massa, N.; Manassero, P .; Marsano, F.; Copetta, A.; Lingua, G.; D’Agostino, G.; Gamalero, E.; Berta,G. Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and plant growth-promoting pseudomonads improve yield, quality and nutritional value oftomato: A ﬁeld study. Mycorrhiza 2017 ,27, 1–11. [CrossRef]77. Hidri, R.; Barea, J.M.; Mahmoud, O.M.B.; Abdelly, C.; Azc ón, R. Impact of microbial inoculation on biomass accumulation bySulla carnosa provenances, and in regulating nutrition, physiological and antioxidant activities of this species under non-salineand saline conditions. J. Plant Physiol. 2016 ,201, 28–41. [CrossRef]78. Armada, E.; Probanza, A.; Rold án, A.; Azc ón, R. Native plant growth promoting bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis and mixed orindividual mycorrhizal species improved drought tolerance and oxidative metabolism in Lavandula dentata plants. J. Plant Physiol.2016 ,192, 1–12. [CrossRef]79. Duc, N.H.; Mayer, Z.; P ék, Z.; Helyes, L.; Posta, K. Combined inoculation of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Pseudomonas ﬂuorescensand Trichoderma spp. for enhancing defense enzymes and yield of three pepper cultivars. Appl. Ecol. Environ. Res. 2017 ,15,1815–1829. [CrossRef]80. Pandey, A.; Yarz ábal, L.A. Bioprospecting cold-adapted plant growth promoting microorganisms from mountain environments.Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2019 ,103, 643–657. [CrossRef]81. Van Elsas, J.D.; Chiurazzi, M.; Mallon, C.A.; Elhottov ¯a, D.; Krišt ˚ ufek, V .; Salles, J.F. Microbial diversity determines the invasion ofsoil by a bacterial pathogen. PNAS 2012 ,109, 1159–1164. [CrossRef]82. Goswami, D.; Thakker, J.N.; Dhandhukia, P .C. Portraying mechanics of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR): A review.Cogent. Food Agric. 2016 ,2, 1127500. [CrossRef]83. Middleton, H.; Yergeau, É.; Monard, C.; Combier, J.-P .; el Amrani, A. Rhizospheric plant–microbe interactions: miRNAs as a keymediator. Trends Plant Sci. 2021 ,26, 132–141. [CrossRef] [PubMed]84. Manfredini, A.; Malus à, E.; Costa, C.; Pallottino, F.; Mocali, S.; Pinzari, F.; Canfora, L. Current methods, common practices, andperspectives in tracking and monitoring bioinoculants in soil. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 698491. [CrossRef] [PubMed]85. Shivanna, M.B.; Meera, M.S.; Hyakumachi, M. Sterile fungi from zoysiagrass rhizosphere as plant growth promoters in springwheat. Can. J. Microbiol. 1994 ,40, 637–644. [CrossRef]86. D ˛ abrowska, G.; Hrynkiewicz, K.; Mierek-Adamska, A.; Goc, A. The sensitivity of spring and winter varieties of oilseed rape toheavy metals and rhizobacteria. Oilseed Crop. 2012 ,33, 201–220.87. Gnanamanickam, S.S.; Immanuel, J.E. Epiphytic bacteria, their ecology and functions. In Plant-Associated Bacteria ; Gnanaman-ickam, S.S., Ed.; Springer: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2006; pp. 131–153.88. Kucharska, K.; Wachowska, U. The microbiome on the leaves of crop plants. Adv. Microbiol. 2014 ,53, 352–359.89. Martins, G.; Lauga, B.; Miot-Sertier, C.; Mercier, A.; Lonvaud, A.; Soulas, M.-L.; Soulas, G.; Masneuf-Pomar ède, I. Characterizationof epiphytic bacterial communities from grapes, leaves, bark and soil of grapevine plants grown, and their relations. PLoS ONE2013 ,8, e73013. [CrossRef]90. Whipps, J.M. Microbial interactions and biocontrol in the rhizosphere. J. Exp. Bot. 2001 ,52, 487–511. [CrossRef]91. Gong, T.; Xin, X. Phyllosphere microbiota: Community dynamics and its interaction with plant hosts. J. Integr. Plant Biol. 2021 ,63,297–304. [CrossRef]92. Contreras-Cornejo, H.A.; Mac ías-Rodr íguez, L.; Cort és-Penagos, C.; L ópez-Bucio, J. Trichoderma virens , a plant beneﬁcial fungus,enhances biomass production and promotes lateral root growth through an auxin-dependent mechanism in Arabidopsis .PlantPhysiol. 2009 ,149, 1579–1592. [CrossRef]93. You, Y.-H.; Yoon, H.; Kang, S.-M.; Shin, J.-H.; Choo, Y.-S.; Lee, I.-J.; Lee, J.-M.; Kim, J.-G. Fungal diversity and plant growthpromotion of endophytic fungi from six halophytes in Suncheon Bay. J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2012 ,22, 1549–1556. [CrossRef][PubMed]94. Bergottini, V .M.; Otegui, M.B.; Sosa, D.A.; Zapata, P .D.; Mulot, M.; Rebord, M.; Zopﬁ, J.; Wiss, F.; Benrey, B.; Junier, P . Bio-inoculation of yerba mate seedlings ( Ilex paraguariensis St. Hill.) with native plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria: A sustainablealternative to improve crop yield. Biol. Fertil. Soils 2015 ,51, 749–755. [CrossRef]95. Poonguzhali, S.; Madhaiyan, M.; Sa, T. Isolation and identiﬁcation of phosphate solubilizing bacteria from chinese cabbage andtheir effect on growth and phosphorus utilization of plants. J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2008 ,18, 773–777. [PubMed]96. Zhang, C.; Kong, F. Isolation and identiﬁcation of potassium-solubilizing bacteria from tobacco rhizospheric soil and their effecton tobacco plants. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2014 ,82, 18–25. [CrossRef]97. Reed, M.L.E.; Glick, B.R. Growth of canola ( Brassica napus ) in the presence of plant growth-promoting bacteria and either copperor polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Can. J. Microbiol. 2005 ,51, 1061–1069. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 33 of 4798. Jousset, A.; Rochat, L.; Lanoue, A.; Bonkowski, M.; Keel, C.; Scheu, S. Plants respond to pathogen infection by enhancing theantifungal gene expression of root-associated bacteria. Mol. Plant-Microbe Interact. 2011 ,24, 352–358. [CrossRef]99. Schirmböck, M.; Lorito, M.; Wang, Y.L.; Hayes, C.K.; Arisan-Atac, I.; Scala, F.; Harman, G.E.; Kubicek, C.P . Parallel formationand synergism of hydrolytic enzymes and peptaibol antibiotics, molecular mechanisms involved in the antagonistic action ofTrichoderma harzianum against phytopathogenic fungi. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 1994 ,60, 4364–4370. [CrossRef]100. Crowley, D.E. Microbial siderophores in the plant rhizosphere. In Iron Nutrition in Plants and Rhizospheric Microorganisms ;Barton, L.L., Abadia, J., Eds.; Springer: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 2006; pp. 169–198.101. Pinedo, I.; Ledger, T.; Greve, M.; Poupin, M.J. Burkholderia phytoﬁrmans PsJN induces long-term metabolic and transcriptionalchanges involved in Arabidopsis thaliana salt tolerance. Front. Plant Sci. 2015 ,6, 466. [CrossRef]102. Coppola, M.; Cascone, P .; di Lelio, I.; Woo, S.L.; Lorito, M.; Rao, R.; Pennacchio, F.; Guerrieri, E.; Digilio, M.C. Trichoderma atrovirideP1 colonization of tomato plants enhances both direct and indirect defense barriers against insects. Front. Physiol. 2019 ,10, 813.[CrossRef]103. Ardanov, P .; Lyastchenko, S.; Karppinen, K.; Häggman, H.; Kozyrovska, N.; Pirttilä, A.M. Effects of Methylobacterium sp. onemergence, yield, and disease prevalence in three cultivars of potato ( Solanum tuberosum L.) were associated with the shift inendophytic microbial community. Plant Soil 2016 ,405, 299–310. [CrossRef]104. Lynch, J.M.; Leij, F. Rhizosphere. In eLS.; John Wiley & Sons: Hoboken, NJ, USA, 2012.105. Kawasaki, A.; Donn, S.; Ryan, P .R.; Mathesius, U.; Devilla, R.; Jones, A.; Watt, M. Microbiome and exudates of the root andrhizosphere of Brachypodium distachyon , a model for wheat. PLoS ONE 2016 ,11, e0164533. [CrossRef] [PubMed]106. Li, X.G.; Zhang, T.L.; Wang, X.X.; Hua, K.; Zhao, L.; Han, Z.M. The composition of root exudates from two different resistantpeanut cultivars and their effects on the growth of soil-borne pathogen. Int. J. Biol. Sci. 2013 ,9, 164. [CrossRef] [PubMed]107. Lucas Garc ía, J.A.; Barbas, C.; Probanza, A.; Barrientos, M.L.; Gutierrez Mañero, F.J. Low molecular weight organic acids and fattyacids in root exudates of two Lupinus cultivars at ﬂowering and fruiting stages. Phytochem. Anal. 2001 ,12, 305–311. [CrossRef]108. Narasimhan, K.; Basheer, C.; Bajic, V .B.; Swarup, S. Enhancement of plant-microbe interactions using a rhizosphere metabolomics-driven approach and its application in the removal of polychlorinated biphenyls. Plant Physiol. 2003 ,132, 146–153. [CrossRef][PubMed]109. Nóbrega, F.M.; Santos, I.S.; da Cunha, M.; Carvalho, A.O.; Gomes, V .M. Antimicrobial proteins from cowpea root exudates:Inhibitory activity against Fusarium oxysporum and puriﬁcation of a chitinase-like protein. Plant Soil 2005 ,272, 223–232. [CrossRef]110. Schönwitz, R.; Ziegler, H. Exudation of water-soluble vitamins and of some carbohydrates by intact roots of maize seedlings(Zea mays L.) into a mineral nutrient solution. Z. Pﬂanzenphysiol. 1982 ,107, 7–14. [CrossRef]111. Wang, J.; Ding, Z.; Bian, J.; Bo, T.; Liu, Y. Chemotaxis response of Meloidogyne incognita to volatiles and organic acids from rootexudates. Rhizosphere 2021 ,17, 100320. [CrossRef]112. Williams, A.; Langridge, H.; Straathof, A.L.; Muhamadali, H.; Hollywood, K.A.; Goodacre, R.; de Vries, F.T. Root functional traitsexplain root exudation rate and composition across a range of grassland species. J. Ecol. 2022 ,110, 21–33. [CrossRef]113. Aulakh, M.S.; Wassmann, R.; Bueno, C.; Kreuzwieser, J.; Rennenberg, H. Characterization of root exudates at different growthstages of ten rice ( Oryza sativa L.) cultivars. Plant Biol. 2001 ,3, 139–148. [CrossRef]114. Bekkara, F.; Jay, M.; Viricel, M.R.; Rome, S. Distribution of phenolic compounds within seed and seedlings of two Vicia faba cvsdiffering in their seed tannin content, and study of their seed and root phenolic exudations. Plant Soil 1998 ,203, 27–36. [CrossRef]115. Watt, M.; Evans, J.R. Linking development and determinacy with organic acid efﬂux from proteoid roots of white lupin grownwith low phosphorus and ambient or elevated atmospheric CO 2concentration. Plant Physiol. 1999 ,120, 705–716. [CrossRef][PubMed]116. Tawaraya, K.; Horie, R.; Saito, A.; Shinano, T.; Wagatsuma, T.; Saito, K.; Oikawa, A. Metabolite proﬁling of shoot extracts, rootextracts, and root exudates of rice plant under phosphorus deﬁciency. J. Plant Nutr. 2013 ,36, 1138–1159. [CrossRef]117. Tawaraya, K.; Horie, R.; Shinano, T.; Wagatsuma, T.; Saito, K.; Oikawa, A. Metabolite proﬁling of soybean root exudates underphosphorus deﬁciency. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2014 ,60, 679–694. [CrossRef]118. Neumann, G.; Römheld, V . Root excretion of carboxylic acids and protons in phosphorus-deﬁcient plants. Plant Soil 1999 ,211,121–130. [CrossRef]119. Carvalhais, L.C.; Dennis, P .G.; Fedoseyenko, D.; Hajirezaei, M.R.; Borriss, R.; von Wir én, N. Root exudation of sugars, aminoacids, and organic acids by maize as affected by nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, and iron deﬁciency. J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 2011 ,174, 3–11. [CrossRef]120. Gargallo-Garriga, A.; Preece, C.; Sardans, J.; Oravec, M.; Urban, O.; Peñuelas, J. Root exudate metabolomes change under droughtand show limited capacity for recovery. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 12696. [CrossRef]121. Henry, A.; Doucette, W.; Norton, J.; Bugbee, B. Changes in crested wheatgrass root exudation caused by ﬂood, drought, andnutrient stress. J. Environ. Qual. 2007 ,36, 904–912. [CrossRef]122. Wang, E.L.H.; Bergeson, G.B. Biochemical changes in root exudate and xylem sap of tomato plants infected with Meloidogyneincognita .J. Nematol. 1974 ,6, 194.123. Neumann, G.; Bott, S.; Ohler, M.A.; Mock, H.P .; Lippmann, R.; Grosch, R.; Smalla, K. Root exudation and root development oflettuce ( Lactuca sativa l. Cv. Tizian) as affected by different soils. Front. Microbiol. 2014 ,5, 2. [CrossRef]124. Guttman, D.S.; McHardy, A.C.; Schulze-Lefert, P . Microbial genome-enabled insights into plant–microorganism interactions. Nat.Rev. Genet. 2014 ,15, 797–813. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 34 of 47125. Mohanram, S.; Kumar, P . Rhizosphere microbiome: Revisiting the synergy of plant-microbe interactions. Ann. Microbiol. 2019 ,69,307–320. [CrossRef]126. Virk, A.L.; Lin, B.-J.; Kan, Z.-R.; Qi, J.-Y.; Dang, Y.P .; Lal, R.; Zhao, X.; Zhang, H.-L. Simultaneous effects of legume cultivation oncarbon and nitrogen accumulation in soil. In Advances in Agronomy ; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 2022; Volume 171, pp.75–110.127. Stajkovi´ c, O.; Deli´ c, D.; Joši´ c, D.; Kuzmanovi´ c, D.; Rasuli´ c, N.; Kneževi´ c-Vukˇ cevi´ c, J. Improvement of common bean growth byco-inoculation with Rhizobium and plant growth-promoting bacteria. Rom. Biotechnol. Lett. 2011 ,16, 5919–5926.128. Rana, A.; Kabi, S.R.; Verma, S.; Adak, A.; Pal, M.; Shivay, Y.S.; Prasanna, R.; Nain, L. Prospecting plant growth promoting bacteriaand cyanobacteria as options for enrichment of macro- and micronutrients in grains in rice–wheat cropping sequence. CogentFood. Agric. 2015 ,1, 1037379. [CrossRef]129. Morales, A.; Alvear, M.; Valenzuela, E.; Rubio, R.; Borie, F. Effect of inoculation with Penicillium albidum , a phosphate-solubilizingfungus, on the growth of Trifolium pratense cropped in a volcanic soil. J. Basic Microbiol. 2007 ,47, 275–280. [CrossRef] [PubMed]130. Hungria, M.; Nogueira, M.A.; Araujo, R.S.; Hungria, M.; Nogueira, M.A.; Araujo, R.S. Soybean seed co-inoculation withBradyrhizobium spp. and Azospirillum brasilense : A new biotechnological tool to improve yield and sustainability. Am. J. Plant Sci.2015 ,6, 811–817. [CrossRef]131. Alkooranee, J.T.; Aledan, T.R.; Ali, A.K.; Lu, G.; Zhang, X.; Wu, J.; Fu, C.; Li, M. Detecting the hormonal pathways in oilseedrape behind induced systemic resistance by Trichoderma harzianum TH12 to Sclerotinia sclerotiorum .PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0168850.[CrossRef]132. Leonetti, P .; Zonno, M.C.; Molinari, S.; Altomare, C. Induction of SA-signaling pathway and ethylene biosynthesis in Trichodermaharzianum -treated tomato plants after infection of the root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita .Plant Cell Rep. 2017 ,36, 621–631.[CrossRef]133. Qin, S.; Zhang, Y.-J.; Yuan, B.; Xu, P .-Y.; Xing, K.; Wang, J.; Jiang, J.-H. Isolation of ACC deaminase-producing habitat-adaptedsymbiotic bacteria associated with halophyte Limonium sinense (Girard) Kuntze and evaluating their plant growth-promotingactivity under salt stress. Plant Soil 2014 ,374, 753–766. [CrossRef]134. Raﬁque, H.M.; Khan, M.Y.; Asghar, H.N.; Ahmad Zahir, Z.; Nadeem, S.M.; Sohaib, M.; Alotaibi, F.; Al-Barakah, F.N.I. Convergingalfalfa ( Medicago sativa L.) and petroleum hydrocarbon acclimated ACC-deaminase containing bacteria for phytoremediation ofpetroleum hydrocarbon contaminated soil. Int. J. Phytoremediation 2022 . [CrossRef]135. Vurukonda, S.S.K.P .; Vardharajula, S.; Shrivastava, M.; SkZ, A. Enhancement of drought stress tolerance in crops by plant growthpromoting rhizobacteria. Microbiol. Res. 2016 ,184, 13–24. [CrossRef]136. Glick, B.R.; Gamalero, E. Recent developments in the study of plant microbiomes. Microorganisms 2021 ,9, 1533. [CrossRef][PubMed]137. Gobbato, E.; Wang, E.; Higgins, G.; Bano, S.A.; Henry, C.; Schultze, M.; Oldroyd, G.E.D. RAM1 and RAM2 function and expressionduring arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and Aphanomyces euteiches colonization. Plant Signal. Behav. 2013 ,8, e26049. [CrossRef][PubMed]138. Keshavan, N.D.; Chowdhary, P .K.; Haines, D.C.; Gonz ález, J.E. L-canavanine made by Medicago sativa interferes with quorumsensing in Sinorhizobium meliloti .J. Bacteriol. 2005 ,187, 8427–8436. [CrossRef] [PubMed]139. Kravchenko, L.V .; Azarova, T.S.; Leonova-Erko, E.I.; Shaposhnikov, A.I.; Makarova, N.M.; Tikhonovich, I.A. Root exudatesof tomato plants and their effect on the growth and antifungal activity of Pseudomonas strains. Microbiology 2003 ,72, 37–41.[CrossRef]140. Rasmann, S.; Köllner, T.G.; Degenhardt, J.; Hiltpold, I.; Toepfer, S.; Kuhlmann, U.; Gershenzon, J.; Turlings, T.C.J. Recruitment ofentomopathogenic nematodes by insect-damaged maize roots. Nature 2005 ,434, 732–737. [CrossRef] [PubMed]141. Zhang, N.; Wang, D.; Liu, Y.; Li, S.; Shen, Q.; Zhang, R. Effects of different plant root exudates and their organic acid componentson chemotaxis, bioﬁlm formation and colonization by beneﬁcial rhizosphere-associated bacterial strains. Plant Soil 2014 ,374,689–700. [CrossRef]142. Danhorn, T.; Fuqua, C. Bioﬁlm formation by plant-associated bacteria. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 2007 ,61, 401–422. [CrossRef]143. Jiménez Bremont, J.; Marina, M.; de la Luz Guerrero-Gonz ález, M.; Rossi, F.; S ánchez-Rangel, D.; Rodr íguez-Kessler, M.; Ruiz, O.;Gárriz, A. Physiological and molecular implications of plant polyamine metabolism during biotic interactions. Front. Plant Sci.2014 ,5, 95. [CrossRef]144. Liu, Z.; Beskrovnaya, P .; Melnyk, R.A.; Hossain, S.S.; Khorasani, S.; O’Sullivan, L.R.; Wiesmann, C.L.; Bush, J.; Richard, J.D.;Haney, C.H. A genome-wide screen identiﬁes genes in rhizosphere-associated Pseudomonas required to evade plant defenses.mBio 2018 ,9, e00433-18. [CrossRef]145. Nelson, M.S.; Sadowsky, M.J. Secretion systems and signal exchange between nitrogen-ﬁxing rhizobia and legumes. Front. PlantSci.2015 ,6, 491. [CrossRef]146. Wang, Q.; Liu, J.; Zhu, H. Genetic and molecular mechanisms underlying symbiotic speciﬁcity in legume-rhizobium interactions.Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 313. [CrossRef] [PubMed]147. Hugoni, M.; Luis, P .; Guyonnet, J.; el Zahar Haichar, F. Plant host habitat and root exudates shape fungal diversity. Mycorrhiza2018 ,28, 451–463. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 35 of 47148. Hu, L.; Robert, C.A.M.; Cadot, S.; Zhang, X.; Ye, M.; Li, B.; Manzo, D.; Chervet, N.; Steinger, T.; van der Heijden, M.G.A.; et al.Root exudate metabolites drive plant-soil feedbacks on growth and defense by shaping the rhizosphere microbiota. Nat. Commun.2018 ,9, 2738. [CrossRef] [PubMed]149. Kawasaki, A.; Dennis, P .G.; Forstner, C.; Raghavendra, A.K.H.; Mathesius, U.; Richardson, A.E.; Delhaize, E.; Gilliham, M.; Watt,M.; Ryan, P .R. Manipulating exudate composition from root apices shapes the microbiome throughout the root system. PlantPhysiol. 2021 ,187, 2279–2295. [CrossRef]150. Kudjordjie, E.N.; Sapkota, R.; Nicolaisen, M. Arabidopsis assemble distinct root-associated microbiomes through the synthesis ofan array of defense metabolites. PLoS ONE 2021 ,16, e0259171. [CrossRef]151. Qu, Q.; Li, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Cui, H.; Zhao, Q.; Liu, W.; Lu, T.; Qian, H. Effects of S-metolachlor on wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.)seedling root exudates and the rhizosphere microbiome. J. Hazard. Mater. 2021 ,411, 125137. [CrossRef]152. Weisskopf, L.; Abou-Mansour, E.; Fromin, N.; Tomasi, N.; Santelia, D.; Edelkott, I.; Neumann, G.; Aragno, M.; Tabacchi, R.;Martinoia, E. White lupin has developed a complex strategy to limit microbial degradation of secreted citrate required forphosphate acquisition. Plant Cell Environ. 2006 ,29, 919–927. [CrossRef]153. EL Zahar Haichar, F.; Marol, C.; Berge, O.; Rangel-Castro, J.I.; Prosser, J.I.; Balesdent, J.; Heulin, T.; Achouak, W. Plant host habitatand root exudates shape soil bacterial community structure. ISME J. 2008 ,2, 1221–1230. [CrossRef]154. Sasse, J.; Martinoia, E.; Northen, T. Feed your friends: Do plant exudates shape the root microbiome? Trends Plant Sci. 2018 ,23,25–41. [CrossRef]155. Cai, T.; Cai, W.; Zhang, J.; Zheng, H.; Tsou, A.M.; Xiao, L.; Zhong, Z.; Zhu, J. Host legume-exuded antimetabolites optimize thesymbiotic rhizosphere. Mol. Microbiol. 2009 ,73, 507–517. [CrossRef]156. Mardani-Korrani, H.; Nakayasu, M.; Yamazaki, S.; Aoki, Y.; Kaida, R.; Motobayashi, T.; Kobayashi, M.; Ohkama-Ohtsu, N.;Oikawa, Y.; Sugiyama, A.; et al. L-canavanine, a root exudate from hairy vetch ( Vicia villosa ) drastically affecting the soil microbialcommunity and metabolite pathways. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 701796. [CrossRef] [PubMed]157. Stringlis, I.A.; Yu, K.; Feussner, K.; de Jonge, R.; van Bentum, S.; van Verk, M.C.; Berendsen, R.L.; Bakker, P .A.H.M.; Feussner, I.;Pieterse, C.M.J. MYB72-dependent coumarin exudation shapes root microbiome assembly to promote plant health. PNAS 2018 ,115, E5213–E5222. [CrossRef] [PubMed]158. Baune, M.; Kang, K.; Schenkeveld, W.D.C.; Kraemer, S.M.; Hayen, H.; Weber, G. Importance of oxidation products in coumarin-mediated Fe(hydr)oxide mineral dissolution. BioMetals 2020 ,33, 305–321. [CrossRef] [PubMed]159. Toljander, J.F.; Lindahl, B.D.; Paul, L.R.; Elfstrand, M.; Finlay, R.D. Inﬂuence of arbuscular mycorrhizal mycelial exudates on soilbacterial growth and community structure. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 2007 ,61, 295–304. [CrossRef] [PubMed]160. Badri, D.V .; Quintana, N.; el Kassis, E.G.; Kim, H.K.; Choi, Y.H.; Sugiyama, A.; Verpoorte, R.; Martinoia, E.; Manter, D.K.; Vivanco,J.M. An ABC transporter mutation alters root exudation of phytochemicals that provoke an overhaul of natural soil microbiota.Plant Physiol. 2009 ,151, 2006–2017. [CrossRef] [PubMed]161. Vives-Peris, V .; de Ollas, C.; G ómez-Cadenas, A.; P érez-Clemente, R.M. Root exudates: From plant to rhizosphere and beyond.Plant Cell Rep. 2020 ,39, 3–17. [CrossRef]162. Volkov, V .; Schwenke, H. A quest for mechanisms of plant root exudation brings new results and models, 300 years after hales.Plants 2020 ,10, 38. [CrossRef]163. Kapilan, R.; Vaziri, M.; Zwiazek, J.J. Regulation of aquaporins in plants under stress. Biol. Res. 2018 ,51, 4. [CrossRef]164. Dietz, S.; von Bülow, J.; Beitz, E.; Nehls, U. The aquaporin gene family of the ectomycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor : Lessons forsymbiotic functions. N. Phytol. 2011 ,190, 927–940. [CrossRef]165. Hwang, J.H.; Ellingson, S.R.; Roberts, D.M. Ammonia permeability of the soybean nodulin 26 channel. FEBS Lett. 2010 ,584,4339–4343. [CrossRef]166. Masalkar, P .; Wallace, I.S.; Hwang, J.H.; Roberts, D.M. Interaction of cytosolic glutamine synthetase of soybean root noduleswith the C-terminal domain of the symbiosome membrane nodulin 26 aquaglyceroporin. J. Biol. Chem. 2010 ,285, 23880–23888.[CrossRef] [PubMed]167. Janczak, K.; D ˛ abrowska, G.; Znajewska, Z.; Hrynkiewicz, K. Effect of bacterial inoculation on the growth of miscanthus andbacterial and fungal density in the polymer-containing soil. Part 2. Non-biodegradable polymers. Chem. Ind. 2014 ,93, 2222–2225.168. Janczak, K.; D ˛ abrowska, G.; Znajewska, Z.; Hrynkiewicz, K. Effect of bacterial inoculation on the growth of miscanthus andbacterial and fungal density in the polymer-containing soil. Part 1. Biodegradable polymers. Chem. Ind. 2014 ,93, 2218–2221.169. Janczak, K.; D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Raszkowska-Kaczor, A.; Kaczor, D.; Hrynkiewicz, K.; Richert, A. Biodegradation of the plasticsPLA and PET in cultivated soil with the participation of microorganisms and plants. Int. Biodeterior. Biodegrad. 2020 ,155, 105087.[CrossRef]170. Afzal, M.; Yousaf, S.; Reichenauer, T.G.; Sessitsch, A. The inoculation method affects colonization and performance of bacterialinoculant strains in the phytoremediation of soil contaminated with diesel oil. Int. J. Phytoremediation 2012 ,14, 35–47. [CrossRef][PubMed]171. Yousaf, S.; Afzal, M.; Reichenauer, T.G.; Brady, C.L.; Sessitsch, A. Hydrocarbon degradation, plant colonization and geneexpression of alkane degradation genes by endophytic Enterobacter ludwigii strains. Environ. Pollut. 2011 ,159, 2675–2683.[CrossRef] [PubMed]172. Louvel, B.; C ébron, A.; Leyval, C. Root exudates affect phenanthrene biodegradation, bacterial community and functional geneexpression in sand microcosms. Int. Biodeterior. Biodegrad. 2011 ,65, 947–953. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 36 of 47173. Chen, L.; Yang, X.; Raza, W.; Li, J.; Liu, Y.; Qiu, M.; Zhang, F.; Shen, Q. Trichoderma harzianum SQR-T037 rapidly degradesallelochemicals in rhizospheres of continuously cropped cucumbers. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2011 ,89, 1653–1663. [CrossRef]174. Wang, Y.; Li, H.; Feng, G.; Du, L.; Zeng, D. Biodegradation of diuron by an endophytic fungus Neurospora intermedia DP8-1isolated from sugarcane and its potential for remediating diuron-contaminated soils. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0182556. [CrossRef]175. Abdelghany, T.M.; El-Ghany Tm, A.; Masmali, I.A. Fungal biodegradation of organophosphorus insecticides and their impact onsoil microbial population. J. Plant Pathol. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1000349.176. Guerrero, R.; Margulis, L.; Berlanga, M. Symbiogenesis: The holobiont as a unit of evolution. Int. Microbiol. 2013 ,16, 133–143.[PubMed]177. Trivedi, P .; Leach, J.E.; Tringe, S.G.; Sa, T.; Singh, B.K. Plant–microbiome interactions: From community assembly to plant health.Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2020 ,18, 607–621. [CrossRef] [PubMed]178. Santhanam, R.; Luu, V .T.; Weinhold, A.; Goldberg, J.; Oh, Y.; Baldwin, I.T. Native root-associated bacteria rescue a plant from asudden-wilt disease that emerged during continuous cropping. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2015 ,112, E5013–E5120. [CrossRef]179. Garbeva, P .; Silby, M.W.; Raaijmakers, J.M.; Levy, S.B.; de Boer, W. Transcriptional and antagonistic responses ofPseudomonas ﬂuorescens Pf0-1 to phylogenetically different bacterial competitors. ISME J. 2011 ,5, 973–985. [CrossRef][PubMed]180. Arendt, K.R.; Hockett, K.L.; Araldi-Brondolo, S.J.; Baltrus, D.A.; Arnold, A.E. Isolation of endohyphal bacteria from foliarAscomycota and in vitro establishment of their symbiotic associations. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2016 ,82, 2943–2949. [CrossRef]181. Hoffman, M.T.; Gunatilaka, M.K.; Wijeratne, K.; Gunatilaka, L.; Arnold, A.E. Endohyphal bacterium enhances production ofindole-3-acetic acid by a foliar fungal endophyte. PLoS ONE 2013 ,8, e73132. [CrossRef]182. Márquez, L.M.; Redman, R.S.; Rodriguez, R.J.; Roossinck, M.J. A virus in a fungus in a plant: Three-way symbiosis required forthermal tolerance. Science 2007 ,315, 513–515. [CrossRef]183. Rodriguez, R.J.; Henson, J.; van Volkenburgh, E.; Hoy, M.; Wright, L.; Beckwith, F.; Kim, Y.-O.; Redman, R.S. Stress tolerance inplants via habitat-adapted symbiosis. ISME J. 2008 ,2, 404–416. [CrossRef]184. Chen, H.; Wu, H.; Yan, B.; Zhao, H.; Liu, F.; Zhang, H.; Sheng, Q.; Miao, F.; Liang, Z. Core microbiome of medicinal plantSalvia miltiorrhiza seed: A rich reservoir of beneﬁcial microbes for secondary metabolism? Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 672. [CrossRef]185. Redford, A.J.; Bowers, R.M.; Knight, R.; Linhart, Y.; Fierer, N. The ecology of the phyllosphere: Geographic and phylogeneticvariability in the distribution of bacteria on tree leaves: Biogeography of phyllosphere bacterial communities. Environ. Microbiol.2010 ,12, 2885–2893. [CrossRef]186. Germida, J.; Siciliano, S. Taxonomic diversity of bacteria associated with the roots of modern, recent and ancient wheat cultivars.Biol. Fertil. Soils 2001 ,33, 410–415.187. Churchland, C.; Grayston, S.J. Speciﬁcity of plant-microbe interactions in the tree mycorrhizosphere biome and consequences forsoil C cycling. Front. Microbiol. 2014 ,5, 261. [CrossRef] [PubMed]188. Grubisha, L.C.; Trappe, J.M.; Molina, R.; Spatafora, J.W. Biology of the ectomycorrhizal genus Rhizopogon . VI. Re-examination ofinfrageneric relationships inferred from phylogenetic analyses of ITS sequences. Mycologia 2002 ,94, 607–619. [CrossRef]189. Young, J.P .W.; Johnston, A.W.B. The evolution of speciﬁcity in the legume-rhizobium symbiosis. Trends Ecol. Evol. 1989 ,4, 341–349.[CrossRef]190. Wicaksono, W.A.; Cernava, T.; Berg, C.; Berg, G. Bog ecosystems as a playground for plant–microbe coevolution: Bryophytes andvascular plants harbour functionally adapted bacteria. Microbiome 2021 ,9, 170. [CrossRef] [PubMed]191. Cobian, G.M.; Egan, C.P .; Amend, A.S. Plant–microbe speciﬁcity varies as a function of elevation. ISME J. 2019 ,13, 2778–2788.[CrossRef]192. Salas-Gonz ález, I.; Reyt, G.; Flis, P .; Cust ódio, V .; Gopaulchan, D.; Bakhoum, N.; Dew, T.P .; Suresh, K.; Franke, R.B.; Dangl, J.L.;et al. Coordination between microbiota and root endodermis supports plant mineral nutrient homeostasis. Science 2021 ,371,eabd0695. [CrossRef]193. Compant, S.; Samad, A.; Faist, H.; Sessitsch, A. A review on the plant microbiome: Ecology, functions, and emerging trends inmicrobial application. J. Adv. Res. 2019 ,19, 29–37. [CrossRef]194. Mitter, B.; Pfaffenbichler, N.; Sessitsch, A. Plant–microbe partnerships in 2020. Microb. Biotechnol. 2016 ,9, 635–640. [CrossRef]195. Abdelfattah, A.; Wisniewski, M.; Schena, L.; Tack, A.J.M. Experimental evidence of microbial inheritance in plants and transmis-sion routes from seed to phyllosphere and root. Environ. Microbiol. 2021 ,23, 2199–2214. [CrossRef]196. Sánchez-L ópez, A.S.; Pintelon, I.; Stevens, V .; Imperato, V .; Timmermans, J.P .; Gonz ález-Ch ávez, C.; Carrillo-Gonz ález, R.; vanhamme, J.; Vangronsveld, J.; Thijs, S. Seed endophyte microbiome of Crotalaria pumila unpeeled: Identiﬁcation of plant-beneﬁcialmethylobacteria. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018 ,19, 291. [CrossRef]197. Coleman-Derr, D.; Desgarennes, D.; Fonseca-Garcia, C.; Gross, S.; Clingenpeel, S.; Woyke, T.; North, G.; Visel, A.; Partida-Martinez,L.P .; Tringe, S.G. Plant compartment and biogeography affect microbiome composition in cultivated and native Agave species. N.Phytol. 2016 ,209, 798–811. [CrossRef] [PubMed]198. Zarraonaindia, I.; Owens, S.M.; Weisenhorn, P .; West, K.; Hampton-Marcell, J.; Lax, S.; Bokulich, N.A.; Mills, D.A.; Martin, G.;Taghavi, S.; et al. The soil microbiome inﬂuences grapevine-associated microbiota. mBio 2015 ,6, e02527-14. [CrossRef] [PubMed]199. De Souza, R.S.C.; Okura, V .K.; Armanhi, J.S.L.; Jorr ín, B.; Lozano, N.; da Silva, M.J.; Gonz ález-Guerrero, M.; de Ara újo, L.M.;Verza, N.C.; Bagheri, H.C.; et al. Unlocking the bacterial and fungal communities assemblages of sugarcane microbiome. Sci. Rep.2016 ,6, 28774. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 37 of 47200. Shade, A.; McManus, P .S.; Handelsman, J. Unexpected diversity during community succession in the apple ﬂower microbiome.mBio 2013 ,4, e00602-12. [CrossRef] [PubMed]201. Wipf, H.M.L.; B ùi, T.N.; Coleman-Derr, D. Distinguishing between the impacts of heat and drought stress on the root microbiomeofSorghum bicolor .Phytobiomes J. 2021 ,5, 166–176. [CrossRef]202. Nuccio, E.E.; Anderson-Furgeson, J.; Estera, K.Y.; Pett-Ridge, J.; de Valpine, P .; Brodie, E.L.; Firestone, M.K. Climate and edaphiccontrollers inﬂuence rhizosphere community assembly for a wild annual grass. Ecology 2016 ,97, 1307–1318. [CrossRef]203. Gargouri, M.; Karray, F.; Chebaane, A.; Mhiri, N.; Partida-Mart ínez, L.P .; Sayadi, S.; Mliki, A. Increasing aridity shapes betadiversity and the network dynamics of the belowground fungal microbiome associated with Opuntia ﬁcus-indica .Sci. Total Environ.2021 ,773, 145008. [CrossRef]204. Lau, J.A.; Lennon, J.T. Rapid responses of soil microorganisms improve plant ﬁtness in novel environments. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 2012 ,109, 14058–14062. [CrossRef]205. Zhang, Y.; Jiang, W.; Li, Q.; Xu, W.; Wang, J.; Hu, J.; Zhang, Z. Soil nutrient levels determine the variation of bacterial communitiesin the rhizosphere of rice under different conditions of climate and genotype. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2021 ,167, 104025. [CrossRef]206. Pii, Y.; Borruso, L.; Brusetti, L.; Crecchio, C.; Cesco, S.; Mimmo, T. The interaction between iron nutrition, plant species and soiltype shapes the rhizosphere microbiome. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2016 ,99, 39–48. [CrossRef] [PubMed]207. Rastogi, G.; Sbodio, A.; Tech, J.J.; Suslow, T.V .; Coaker, G.L.; Leveau, J.H.J. Leaf microbiota in an agroecosystem: Spatiotemporalvariation in bacterial community composition on ﬁeld-grown lettuce. ISME J. 2012 ,6, 1812–1822. [CrossRef] [PubMed]208. Gontia-Mishra, I.; Sapre, S.; Deshmukh, R.; Sikdar, S.; Tiwari, S. Microbe-mediated drought tolerance in plants: Currentdevelopments and future challenges. In Plant Microbiomes for Sustainable Agriculture ; Yadav, A.N., Singh, J., Rastegari, A.A., Yadav,N., Eds.; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2020; pp. 351–379.209. Naylor, D.; DeGraaf, S.; Purdom, E.; Coleman-Derr, D. Drought and host selection inﬂuence bacterial community dynamics in thegrass root microbiome. ISME J. 2017 ,11, 2691–2704. [CrossRef] [PubMed]210. Santos-Medell ín, C.; Edwards, J.; Liechty, Z.; Nguyen, B.; Sundaresan, V . Drought stress results in a compartment-speciﬁcrestructuring of the rice root-associated microbiomes. mBio 2017 ,8, e00764-17. [CrossRef] [PubMed]211. Nelson, A.R.; Narrowe, A.B.; Rhoades, C.C.; Fegel, T.S.; Daly, R.A.; Roth, H.K.; Chu, R.K.; Amundson, K.K.; Young, R.B.;Steindorff, A.S.; et al. Wildﬁre-dependent changes in soil microbiome diversity and function. Nat. Microbiol. 2022 ,7, 1419–1430.[CrossRef]212. Wei, F.; Feng, H.; Zhang, D.; Feng, Z.; Zhao, L.; Zhang, Y.; Deakin, G.; Peng, J.; Zhu, H.; Xu, X. Composition of rhizospheremicrobial communities associated with healthy and Verticillium wilt diseased cotton plants. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 618169.[CrossRef]213. Lazcano, C.; Boyd, E.; Holmes, G.; Hewavitharana, S.; Pasulka, A.; Ivors, K. The rhizosphere microbiome plays a role in theresistance to soil-borne pathogens and nutrient uptake of strawberry cultivars under ﬁeld conditions. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 3188.[CrossRef]214. Kong, H.G.; Kim, B.K.; Song, G.C.; Lee, S.; Ryu, C.-M. Aboveground whiteﬂy infestation-mediated reshaping of the rootmicrobiota. Front. Microbiol. 2016 ,7, 1314. [CrossRef]215. Turnbaugh, P .J.; Ley, R.E.; Hamady, M.; Fraser-Liggett, C.M.; Knight, R.; Gordon, J.I. The human microbiome project. Nature 2007 ,449, 804–810. [CrossRef]216. Neu, A.T.; Allen, E.E.; Roy, K. Deﬁning and quantifying the core microbiome: Challenges and prospects. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.USA 2021 ,118, e2104429118. [CrossRef]217. Lay, C.-Y.; Bell, T.H.; Hamel, C.; Harker, K.N.; Mohr, R.; Greer, C.W.; Yergeau, É.; St-Arnaud, M. Canola root–associatedmicrobiomes in the canadian prairies. Front. Microbiol. 2018 ,9, 1188. [CrossRef] [PubMed]218. Hassani, M.A.; Dur án, P .; Hacquard, S. Microbial interactions within the plant holobiont. Microbiome 2018 ,6, 58. [CrossRef]219. Agler, M.T.; Ruhe, J.; Kroll, S.; Morhenn, C.; Kim, S.T.; Weigel, D.; Kemen, E.M. Microbial hub taxa link host and abiotic factors toplant microbiome variation. PLoS Biol. 2016 ,14, e1002352. [CrossRef] [PubMed]220. Niu, B.; Paulson, J.N.; Zheng, X.; Kolter, R. Simpliﬁed and representative bacterial community of maize roots. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. USA 2017 ,114, E2450–E2459. [CrossRef] [PubMed]221. Margulis, L.; Fester, R. Symbiosis as a source of evolutionary innovation: Speciation and morphogenesis. In Cambridge Mass ; MITPress: Cambridge, MA, USA, 1991; pp. 1–14.222. Teixeira, P .J.P .; Colaianni, N.R.; Fitzpatrick, C.R.; Dangl, J.L. Beyond pathogens: Microbiota interactions with the plant immunesystem. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 2019 ,49, 7–17. [CrossRef] [PubMed]223. Harman, G.E.; Uphoff, N. Symbiotic root-endophytic soil microbes improve crop productivity and provide environmentalbeneﬁts. Scientiﬁca 2019 ,2019 , 9106395. [CrossRef] [PubMed]224. Zilber-Rosenberg, I.; Rosenberg, E. Role of microorganisms in the evolution of animals and plants: The hologenome theory ofevolution. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2008 ,32, 723–735. [CrossRef]225. Rosenberg, E.; Koren, O.; Reshef, L.; Efrony, R.; Zilber-Rosenberg, I. The role of microorganisms in coral health, disease andevolution. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2007 ,5, 355–362. [CrossRef]226. Rosenberg, E.; Zilber-Rosenberg, I. The hologenome concept of evolution after 10 years. Microbiome 2018 ,6, 78. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 38 of 47227. Romero, F.M.; Marina, M.; Pieckenstain, F.L.; Rossi, F.R.; Gonzalez, M.E.; Vignatti, P .; G árriz, A. Gaining insight into plant re-sponses to beneﬁcial and pathogenic microorganisms using metabolomic and transcriptomic approaches. In Metabolic Engineeringfor Bioactive Compounds: Strategies and Processes ; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2017; pp. 113–140.228. Dangl, J.L.; Horvath, D.M.; Staskawicz, B.J. Pivoting the plant immune system from dissection to deployment. Science 2013 ,341,746–751. [CrossRef]229. Jubic, L.M.; Saile, S.; Furzer, O.J.; el Kasmi, F.; Dangl, J.L. Help wanted: Helper NLRs and plant immune responses. Curr. Opin.Plant Biol. 2019 ,50, 82–94. [CrossRef] [PubMed]230. Block, A.; Li, G.; Fu, Z.Q.; Alfano, J.R. Phytopathogen type III effector weaponry and their plant targets. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol.2008 ,11, 396–403. [CrossRef] [PubMed]231. Thomma, B.P .H.J.; Nürnberger, T.; Joosten, M.H.A.J. Of PAMPs and effectors: The blurred PTI-ETI dichotomy. Plant Cell 2011 ,23,4–15. [CrossRef]232. Yuan, M.; Jiang, Z.; Bi, G.; Nomura, K.; Liu, M.; Wang, Y.; Cai, B.; Zhou, J.M.; He, S.Y.; Xin, X.F. Pattern-recognition receptors arerequired for NLR-mediated plant immunity. Nature 2021 ,592, 105–109. [CrossRef]233. Teixeira, P .J.P .L.; Colaianni, N.R.; Law, T.F.; Conway, J.M.; Gilbert, S.; Li, H.; Salas-Gonz ález, I.; Panda, D.; del Risco, N.M.; Finkel,O.M.; et al. Speciﬁc modulation of the root immune system by a community of commensal bacteria. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA2021 ,118, e2100678118. [CrossRef]234. Bai, B.; Liu, W.; Qiu, X.; Zhang, J.; Zhang, J.; Bai, Y. The root microbiome: Community assembly and its contributions to plantﬁtness. J. Integr. Plant Biol. 2022 ,64, 230–243. [CrossRef]235. Zhou, F.; Emonet, A.; D énervaud Tendon, V .; Marhavy, P .; Wu, D.; Lahaye, T.; Geldner, N. Co-incidence of damage and microbialpatterns controls localized immune responses in roots. Cell2020 ,180, 440–453.e18. [CrossRef]236. Saravanakumar, K.; Fan, L.; Fu, K.; Yu, C.; Wang, M.; Xia, H.; Sun, J.; Li, Y.; Chen, J. Cellulase from Trichoderma harzianum interactswith roots and triggers induced systemic resistance to foliar disease in maize. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 35543. [CrossRef] [PubMed]237. Zahir, Z.A.; Ghani, U.; Naveed, M.; Nadeem, S.M.; Asghar, H.N. Comparative effectiveness of Pseudomonas and Serratia sp.containing ACC-deaminase for improving growth and yield of wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) under salt-stressed conditions. Arch.Microbiol. 2009 ,191, 415–424. [CrossRef]238. Adhikari, P .; Pandey, A. Phosphate solubilization potential of endophytic fungi isolated from Taxus wallichiana Zucc. roots.Rhizosphere 2019 ,9, 2–9. [CrossRef]239. Zhao, L.; Zhang, Y.Q. Effects of phosphate solubilization and phytohormone production of Trichoderma asperellum Q1 on promotingcucumber growth under salt stress. J. Integr. Agric. 2015 ,14, 1588–1597. [CrossRef]240. Fochi, V .; Chitarra, W.; Kohler, A.; Voyron, S.; Singan, V .R.; Lindquist, E.A.; Barry, K.W.; Girlanda, M.; Grigoriev, I.V .; Martin, F.;et al. Fungal and plant gene expression in the Tulasnella calospora–Serapias vomeracea symbiosis provides clues about nitrogenpathways in orchid mycorrhizas. N. Phytol. 2017 ,213, 365–379. [CrossRef] [PubMed]241. Li, T.; Hu, Y.J.; Hao, Z.P .; Li, H.; Wang, Y.S.; Chen, B.D. First cloning and characterization of two functional aquaporin genes froman arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices .N. Phytol. 2013 ,197, 617–630. [CrossRef] [PubMed]242. Gujar, P .D.; Bhavsar, K.P .; Khire, J.M. Effect of phytase from Aspergillus niger on plant growth and mineral assimilation in wheat(Triticum aestivum Linn.) and its potential for use as a soil amendment. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2013 ,93, 2242–2247. [CrossRef] [PubMed]243. Viterbo, A.; Landau, U.; Kim, S.; Chernin, L.; Chet, I. Characterization of ACC deaminase from the biocontrol and plantgrowth-promoting agent Trichoderma asperellum T203. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2010 ,305, 42–48. [CrossRef]244. Viterbo, A.; Chet, I. TasHyd1 , a new hydrophobin gene from the biocontrol agent Trichoderma asperellum , is involved in plant rootcolonization. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2006 ,7, 249–258. [CrossRef]245. Samolski, I.; Rinc ón, A.M.; Pinz ón, L.M.; Viterbo, A.; Monte, E. The qid74 gene from Trichoderma harzianum has a role in rootarchitecture and plant biofertilization. Microbiology 2012 ,158, 129–138. [CrossRef]246. Helber, N.; Wippel, K.; Sauer, N.; Schaarschmidt, S.; Hause, B.; Requena, N. A versatile monosaccharide transporter that operatesin the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus Glomus sp is crucial for the symbiotic relationship with plants. Plant Cell 2011 ,23, 3812–3823.[CrossRef]247. Viterbo, A.; Wiest, A.; Brotman, Y.; Chet, I.; Kenerley, C. The 18mer peptaibols from Trichoderma virens elicit plant defenceresponses. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2007 ,8, 737–746. [CrossRef]248. Rubio, M.B.; Hermosa, R.; Reino, J.L.; Collado, I.G.; Monte, E. Thctf1 transcription factor of Trichoderma harzianum is involved in6-pentyl-2H-pyran-2-one production and antifungal activity. Fungal Genet. Biol. 2009 ,46, 17–27. [CrossRef]249. Kubicek, C.P .; Herrera-Estrella, A.; Seidl-Seiboth, V .; Martinez, D.A.; Druzhinina, I.S.; Thon, M.; Zeilinger, S.; Casas-Flores, S.;Horwitz, B.A.; Mukherjee, P .K.; et al. Comparative genome sequence analysis underscores mycoparasitism as the ancestral lifestyle of Trichoderma .Genome Biol. 2011 ,12, R40. [CrossRef] [PubMed]250. Brotman, Y.; Briff, E.; Viterbo, A.; Chet, I. Role of swollenin, an expansin-like protein from Trichoderma , in plant root colonization.Plant Physiol. 2008 ,147, 779–789. [CrossRef] [PubMed]251. Vargas, W.A.; Djonovi´ c, S.; Sukno, S.A.; Kenerley, C.M. Dimerization controls the activity of fungal elicitors that trigger systemicresistance in plants. JBC2008 ,283, 19804–19815. [CrossRef] [PubMed]252. Djonovi´ c, S.; Vargas, W.A.; Kolomiets, M.V .; Horndeski, M.; Wiest, A.; Kenerley, C.M. A proteinaceous elicitor Sm1 from thebeneﬁcial fungus Trichoderma virens is required for induced systemic resistance in maize. Plant Physiol. 2007 ,145, 875–889.[CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 39 of 47253. Nelkner, J.; Tejerizo, G.T.; Hassa, J.; Lin, T.W.; Witte, J.; Verwaaijen, B.; Winkler, A.; Bunk, B.; Spröer, C.; Overmann, J.; et al. Geneticpotential of the biocontrol agent Pseudomonas brassicacearum (Formerly P . trivialis ) 3Re2-7 unraveled by genome sequencing andmining, comparative genomics and transcriptomics. Genes 2019 ,10, 601. [CrossRef]254. Glick, B.R.; Jacobson, C.B.; Schwarze, M.K.; Pasternak, J.J. 1-Aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid deaminase mutants of theplant growth promoting rhizobacterium Pseudomonas putida GR12-2 do not stimulate canola root elongation. Can. J. Microbiol.2011 ,40, 911–915. [CrossRef]255. Blaha, D.; Prigent-Combaret, C.; Mirza, M.S.; Moënne-Loccoz, Y. Phylogeny of the 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic aciddeaminase-encoding gene acdS in phytobeneﬁcial and pathogenic Proteobacteria and relation with strain biogeography. FEMSMicrobiol. Ecol. 2006 ,56, 455–470. [CrossRef]256. Taghavi, S.; van der Lelie, D.; Hoffman, A.; Zhang, Y.B.; Walla, M.D.; Vangronsveld, J.; Newman, L.; Monchy, S. Genome sequenceof the plant growth promoting endophytic bacterium Enterobacter sp. 638. PLoS Genet. 2010 ,6, e1000943. [CrossRef]257. Suryadi, Y.; Susilowati, D.N.; Lestari, P .; Priyatno, T.P .; Samudra, I.M.; Hikmawati, N.; Mubarik, D.N.R.; Mubarik, N.R.Characterization of bacterial isolates producing chitinase and glucanase for biocontrol of plant fungal pathogens. J. Agric. Technol.2014 ,10, 983–999.258. Gupta, C.P .; Kumar, B.; Dubey, R.C.; Maheshwari, D.K. Chitinase-mediated destructive antagonistic potential of Pseudomonasaeruginosa GRC1 against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum causing stem rot of peanut. BioControl 2006 ,51, 821–835. [CrossRef]259. Ramette, A.; Frapolli, M.; D éfago, G.; Moënne-Loccoz, Y. Phylogeny of HCN synthase-encoding hcnBC genes in biocontrolﬂuorescent pseudomonads and its relationship with host plant species and HCN synthesis ability. Mol. Plant Microbe. Interact.2003 ,16, 525–535. [CrossRef] [PubMed]260. Zimmer, W.; Hundeshagen, B.; Niederau, E. Demonstration of the indolepyruvate decarboxylase gene homologue in differentauxin-producing species of the Enterobacteriaceae. Can. J. Microbiol. 1994 ,40, 1072–1076. [CrossRef] [PubMed]261. Ryu, R.J.; Patten, C.L. Aromatic amino acid-dependent expression of indole-3-pyruvate decarboxylase is regulated by TyrR inEnterobacter cloacae UW5. J. Bacteriol. 2008 ,190, 7200–7208. [CrossRef]262. Spaepen, S.; Vers ées, W.; Gocke, D.; Pohl, M.; Steyaert, J.; Vanderleyden, J. Characterization of phenylpyruvate decarboxylase,involved in auxin production of Azospirillum brasilense .J. Bacteriol. 2007 ,189, 7626. [CrossRef]263. Poza-Carri ón, C.; Jim énez-Vicente, E.; Navarro-Rodr íguez, M.; Echavarri-Erasun, C.; Rubio, L.M. Kinetics of nif gene expressionin a nitrogen-ﬁxing bacterium. J. Bacteriol. 2014 ,196, 595–603. [CrossRef] [PubMed]264. Steenhoudt, O.; Vanderleyden, J. Azospirillum, a free-living nitrogen-ﬁxing bacterium closely associated with grasses: Genetic,biochemical and ecological aspects. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 2000 ,24, 487–506. [CrossRef]265. Satyanarayana, S.D.V .; Krishna, M.S.R.; Pavan Kumar, P .; Jeereddy, S. In silico structural homology modeling of nif A protein ofrhizobial strains in selective legume plants. J. Genet. Eng. Biotechnol. 2018 ,16, 731–737. [CrossRef]266. Wo´ zniak, M.; Gał ˛ azka, A.; Ty´ skiewicz, R.; Jaroszuk-´ sciseł, J. Endophytic bacteria potentially promote plant growth by synthesizingdifferent metabolites and their phenotypic/physiological proﬁles in the Biolog GEN III MicroPlateTM Test. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 5283. [CrossRef]267. Sherathia, D.; Dey, R.; Thomas, M.; Dalsania, T.; Savsani, K.; Pal, K.K. Biochemical and molecular characterization of DAPG-producing plant growthpromoting rhizobacteria (PGPR) of groundnut ( Arachis hypogaea L.). Legum. Res. Int. J. 2016 ,39,614–622.268. Lynch, D.; O’Brien, J.; Welch, T.; Clarke, P .; Cu ív, P .O.; Crosa, J.H.; O’Connell, M. Genetic organization of the region encodingregulation, biosynthesis, and transport of rhizobactin 1021, a siderophore produced by Sinorhizobium meliloti .J. Bacteriol. 2001 ,183, 2576–2585. [CrossRef]269. Dong, H.; Beer, S.V . Riboﬂavin induces disease resistance in plants by activating a novel signal transduction pathway. Phytopathol-ogy2000 ,90, 801–811. [CrossRef] [PubMed]270. Xie, S.S.; Wu, H.J.; Zang, H.Y.; Wu, L.M.; Zhu, Q.Q.; Gao, X.W. Plant growth promotion by spermidine-producing Bacillus subtilisOKB105. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2014 ,27, 655–663. [CrossRef] [PubMed]271. Aasfar, A.; Bargaz, A.; Yaakoubi, K.; Hilali, A.; Bennis, I.; Zeroual, Y.; Meftah Kadmiri, I. Nitrogen ﬁxing Azotobacter species aspotential soil biological enhancers for crop nutrition and yield stability. Front. Microbiol. 2021 ,12, 354. [CrossRef]272. Soumare, A.; Diedhiou, A.G.; Thuita, M.; Haﬁdi, M.; Ouhdouch, Y.; Gopalakrishnan, S.; Kouisni, L. Exploiting biological nitrogenﬁxation: A route towards a sustainable agriculture. Plants 2020 ,9, 1011. [CrossRef]273. Ji, J.; Yuan, D.; Jin, C.; Wang, G.; Li, X.; Guan, C. Enhancement of growth and salt tolerance of rice seedlings ( Oryza sativa L.)by regulating ethylene production with a novel halotolerant PGPR strain Glutamicibacter sp. YD01 containing ACC deaminaseactivity. Acta Physiol. Plant. 2020 ,42, 42. [CrossRef]274. Kumar, S.; Chandra, R.; Keswani, C.; Minkina, T.; Mandzhieva, S.; Voloshina, M.; Meena, M. Trichoderma viride —Mediatedmodulation of oxidative stress network in potato challenged with Alternaria solani .J. Plant Growth Regul. 2022 , 1–18. [CrossRef]275. Kumar, A.; Singh, S.; Mukherjee, A.; Rastogi, R.P .; Verma, J.P . Salt-tolerant plant growth-promoting Bacillus pumilus strainJPVS11 to enhance plant growth attributes of rice and improve soil health under salinity stress. Microbiol. Res. 2021 ,242, 126616.[CrossRef]276. Jain, A.; Singh, A.; Singh, S.; Singh, H.B. Microbial consortium-induced changes in oxidative stress markers in pea plantschallenged with Sclerotinia sclerotiorum .J. Plant Growth Regul. 2013 ,32, 388–398. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 40 of 47277. Singh, S.P .; Gupta, R.; Gaur, R.; Srivastava, A.K. Streptomyces spp. alleviate Rhizoctonia solani -mediated oxidative stress in Solanumlycopersicon .Ann. Appl. Biol. 2016 ,168, 232–242. [CrossRef]278. Islam, F.; Yasmeen, T.; Arif, M.S.; Ali, S.; Ali, B.; Hameed, S.; Zhou, W. Plant growth promoting bacteria confer salt tolerance inVigna radiata by up-regulating antioxidant defense and biological soil fertility. Plant Growth Regul. 2016 ,80, 23–36. [CrossRef]279. Hashem, A.; Alqarawi, A.A.; Radhakrishnan, R.; Al-Arjani, A.-B.F.; Aldehaish, H.A.; Egamberdieva, D.; Abd Allah, E.F.Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi regulate the oxidative system, hormones and ionic equilibrium to trigger salt stress tolerance inCucumis sativus L.Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 2018 ,25, 1102–1114. [CrossRef] [PubMed]280. Mierek-Adamska, A.; Kotowicz, K.; Goc, A.; Boniecka, J.; Berdychowska, J.; D ˛ abrowska, G.B. Potential involvement of rapeseed(Brassica napus L.) metallothioneins in the hydrogen peroxide-induced regulation of seed vigour. J. Agron. Crop Sci. 2019 ,205,598–607. [CrossRef]281. Hassinen, V .H.; Tervahauta, A.I.; Schat, H.; Kärenlampi, S.O. Plant metallothioneins-metal chelators with ROS scavengingactivity? Plant Biol. 2011 ,13, 225–232. [CrossRef] [PubMed]282. Gutiérrez-Mañero, F.J.; Ramos-Solano, B.; Probanza, A.; Mehouachi, J.; Tadeo, F.R.; Talon, M. The plant-growth-promotingrhizobacteria Bacillus pumilus and Bacillus licheniformis produce high amounts of physiologically active gibberellins. Physiol. Plant2001 ,111, 206–211. [CrossRef]283. Cassán, F.; Perrig, D.; Sgroy, V .; Masciarelli, O.; Penna, C.; Luna, V . Azospirillum brasilense Az39 and Bradyrhizobium japonicum E109,inoculated singly or in combination, promote seed germination and early seedling growth in corn ( Zea mays L.) and soybean(Glycine max L.).Eur. J. Soil Biol. 2009 ,45, 28–35. [CrossRef]284. Perrig, D.; Boiero, M.L.; Masciarelli, O.A.; Penna, C.; Ruiz, O.A.; Cass án, F.D.; Luna, M.V . Plant-growth-promoting compoundsproduced by two agronomically important strains of Azospirillum brasilense , and implications for inoculant formulation. Appl.Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2007 ,75, 1143–1150. [CrossRef]285. Timmusk, S.; Nicander, B.; Granhall, U.; Tillberg, E. Cytokinin production by Paenibacillus polymyxa .Soil Biol. Biochem. 1999 ,31,1847–1852. [CrossRef]286. García de Salamone, I.E.; Hynes, R.K.; Nelson, L.M. Cytokinin production by plant growth promoting rhizobacteria and selectedmutants. Can. J. Microbiol. 2011 ,47, 404–411. [CrossRef]287. Sorokan, A.; Veselova, S.; Benkovskaya, G.; Maksimov, I. Endophytic strain Bacillus subtilis 26D increases levels of phytohormonesand repairs growth of potato plants after Colorado potato beetle damage. Plants 2021 ,10, 923. [CrossRef]288. Park, Y.-G.; Mun, B.-G.; Kang, S.-M.; Hussain, A.; Shahzad, R.; Seo, C.-W.; Kim, A.-Y.; Lee, S.-U.; Oh, K.Y.; Lee, D.Y.; et al. Bacillusaryabhattai SRB02 tolerates oxidative and nitrosative stress and promotes the growth of soybean by modulating the production ofphytohormones. PLoS ONE 2017 ,12, e0173203. [CrossRef]289. Dixit, R.; Agrawal, L.; Gupta, S.; Kumar, M.; Yadav, S.; Chauhan, P .S.; Nautiyal, C.S. Southern blight disease of tomato control by1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase producing Paenibacillus lentimorbus B-30488. Plant Signal. Behav. 2016 ,11,e1113363. [CrossRef] [PubMed]290. Nascimento, F.X.; Vicente, C.S.L.; Barbosa, P .; Espada, M.; Glick, B.R.; Mota, M.; Oliveira, S. Evidence for the involvement of ACCdeaminase from Pseudomonas putida UW4 in the biocontrol of pine wilt disease caused by Bursaphelenchus xylophilus .BioControl2013 ,58, 427–433. [CrossRef]291. Ravanbakhsh, M.; Sasidharan, R.; Voesenek, L.A.C.J.; Kowalchuk, G.A.; Jousset, A. ACC deaminase-producing rhizospherebacteria modulate plant responses to ﬂooding. J. Ecol. 2017 ,105, 979–986. [CrossRef]292. Carlos, M.-H.J.; Stefani, P .-V .Y.; Janette, A.-M.; Melani, M.-S.S.; Gabriela, P .-O. Assessing the effects of heavy metals in ACCdeaminase and IAA production on plant growth-promoting bacteria. Microbiol. Res. 2016 ,188–189 , 53–61. [CrossRef] [PubMed]293. Lindström, K.; Mousavi, S.A. Effectiveness of nitrogen ﬁxation in rhizobia. Microb. Biotechnol. 2020 ,13, 1314–1335. [CrossRef]294. Yang, J.; Kloepper, J.W.; Ryu, C.-M. Rhizosphere bacteria help plants tolerate abiotic stress. Trends Plant. Sci. 2009 ,14, 1–4.[CrossRef]295. Figueiredo, M.V .B.; Burity, H.A.; Mart ínez, C.R.; Chanway, C.P . Alleviation of drought stress in the common bean ( Phaseolusvulgaris L.) by co-inoculation with Paenibacillus polymyxa and Rhizobium tropici .Appl. Soil Ecol. 2008 ,40, 182–188. [CrossRef]296. Philippot, L.; Raaijmakers, J.M.; Lemanceau, P .; van der Putten, W.H. Going back to the roots: The microbial ecology of therhizosphere. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 2013 ,11, 789–799. [CrossRef]297. Kaﬂe, A.; Cope, K.; Raths, R.; Krishna Yakha, J.; Subramanian, S.; Bücking, H.; Garcia, K. Harnessing soil microbes to improveplant phosphate efﬁciency in cropping systems. Agronomy 2019 ,9, 127. [CrossRef]298. Linu, M.S.; Stephen, J.; Jisha, M.S. Phosphate solubilizing Gluconacetobacter sp.,Burkholderia sp. and their potential interactionwith cowpea ( Vigna unguiculata (L.) Walp.). Int. J. Agric. Res. 2009 ,4, 79–87. [CrossRef]299. Selvakumar, G.; Mohan, M.; Kundu, S.; Gupta, A.D.; Joshi, P .; Nazim, S.; Gupta, H.S. Cold tolerance and plant growth promotionpotential of Serratia marcescens strain SRM (MTCC 8708) isolated from ﬂowers of summer squash ( Cucurbita pepo ).Lett. Appl.Microbiol. 2008 ,46, 171–175. [CrossRef] [PubMed]300. Parmar, P .; Sindhu, S.S. Potassium solubilization by rhizosphere bacteria: Inﬂuence of nutritional and environmental conditions.J. Microbiol. Res. 2013 ,3, 25–31.301. Gouda, S.; Kerry, R.G.; Das, G.; Paramithiotis, S.; Shin, H.S.; Patra, J.K. Revitalization of plant growth promoting rhizobacteria forsustainable development in agriculture. Microbiol. Res. 2018 ,206, 131–140. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 41 of 47302. Ali, A.; Javaid, A.; Shoaib, A.; Khan, I.H. Effect of soil amendment with Chenopodium album dry biomass and two Trichodermaspecies on growth of chickpea var. Noor 2009 in Sclerotium rolfsii contaminated soil. Egypt. J. Biol. Pest Control 2020 ,30, 102.[CrossRef]303. Xiao, Y.; Wang, X.; Chen, W.; Huang, Q. Isolation and identiﬁcation of three potassium-solubilizing bacteria from rape rhizosphericsoil and their effects on ryegrass. Geomicrobiol. J. 2017 ,34, 873–880. [CrossRef]304. Basak, B.B.; Biswas, D.R. Inﬂuence of potassium solubilizing microorganism ( Bacillus mucilaginosus ) and waste mica on potassiumuptake dynamics by sudan grass ( Sorghum vulgare Pers.) grown under two Alﬁsols. Plant Soil 2009 ,317, 235–255. [CrossRef]305. Raji, M.; Thangavelu, M. Isolation and screening of potassium solubilizing bacteria from saxicolous habitat and their impact ontomato growth in different soil types. Arch. Microbiol. 2021 ,203, 3147–3161. [CrossRef]306. Bityutskii, N.; Yakkonen, K.; Petrova, A.; Nadporozhskaya, M. Xylem sap mineral analyses as a rapid method for estimationplant-availability of Fe, Zn and Mn in carbonate soils: A case study in cucumber. J. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 2017 ,17, 279–290.[CrossRef]307. Colombo, C.; Palumbo, G.; He, J.Z.; Pinton, R.; Cesco, S. Review on iron availability in soil: Interaction of Fe minerals, plants, andmicrobes. J. Soils Sediments 2014 ,14, 538–548. [CrossRef]308. Rani, N.; Kaur, S.; Nitu, R.; Rajinder, K.; Sukhminderjit, K. Zinc solubilizing bacteria to augment soil fertility—A comprehensivereview. Int. Microbiol. 2020 ,8, 38–44.309. Li, R.-X.; Cai, F.; Pang, G.; Shen, Q.-R.; Li, R.; Chen, W. Solubilisation of phosphate and micronutrients by Trichoderma harzianumand its relationship with the promotion of tomato plant growth. PLoS ONE 2015 ,10, e0130081. [CrossRef] [PubMed]310. Singh, D.; Geat, N.; Rajawat, M.V .S.; Prasanna, R.; Kar, A.; Singh, A.M.; Saxena, A.K. Prospecting endophytes from different Feor Zn accumulating wheat genotypes for their inﬂuence as inoculants on plant growth, yield, and micronutrient content. Ann.Microbiol. 2018 ,68, 815–833. [CrossRef]311. Öˇgüt, M.; Er, F. Micronutrient composition of ﬁeld-grown dry bean and wheat inoculated with Azospirillum and Trichoderma .J. Plant Nutr. Soil Sci. 2006 ,169, 699–703. [CrossRef]312. Durán, P .; Acuña, J.J.; Armada, E.; L ópez-Castillo, O.M.; Cornejo, P .; Mora, M.L.; Azc ón, R. Inoculation with selenobacteria andarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to enhance selenium content in lettuce plants and improve tolerance against drought stress. J. SoilSci. Plant Nutr. 2016 ,16, 211–225. [CrossRef]313. De Valença, A.W.; Bake, A.; Brouwer, I.D.; Giller, K.E. Agronomic biofortiﬁcation of crops to ﬁght hidden hunger in sub-SaharanAfrica. Glob. Food Sec. 2017 ,12, 8–14. [CrossRef]314. Díaz-Gómez, J.; Twyman, R.M.; Zhu, C.; Farr é, G.; Serrano, J.C.; Portero-Otin, M.; Muñoz, P .; Sandmann, G.; Capell, T.; Christou,P . Biofortiﬁcation of crops with nutrients: Factors affecting utilization and storage. Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 2017 ,44, 115–123.[CrossRef]315. Khush, G.S.; Lee, S.; Cho, J.I.; Jeon, J.S. Biofortiﬁcation of crops for reducing malnutrition. Plant Biotechnol. Rep. 2012 ,6, 195–202.[CrossRef]316. Cabreﬁga, J.; Bonaterra, A.; Montesinos, E. Mechanisms of antagonism of Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens EPS62e against Erwinia amylovora ,the casual agent of ﬁre blight. Int. Microbiol. 2007 ,10, 123132.317. Kinsella, K.; Schulthess, C.P .; Morris, T.F.; Stuart, J.D. Rapid quantiﬁcation of Bacillus subtilis antibiotics in the rhizosphere. SoilBiol. Biochem. 2009 ,41, 374–379. [CrossRef]318. Bais, H.P .; Fall, R.; Vivanco, J.M. Biocontrol of Bacillus subtilis against infection of Arabidopsis roots by Pseudomonas syringae isfacilitated by bioﬁlm formation and surfactin production. Plant Physiol. 2004 ,134, 307–319. [CrossRef]319. Liu, X.; Bimerew, M.; Ma, Y.; Müller, H.; Ovadis, M.; Eberl, L.; Berg, G.; Chernin, L. Quorum-sensing signaling is required forproduction of the antibiotic pyrrolnitrin in a rhizospheric biocontrol strain of Serratia plymuthica .FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2007 ,270,299–305. [CrossRef] [PubMed]320. Kurze, S.; Bahl, H.; Dahl, R.; Berg, G. Biological control of fungal strawberry diseases by Serratia plymuthica HRO-C48. Plant Dis.2001 ,85, 529–534. [CrossRef] [PubMed]321. Chen, Y.; Wang, J.; Yang, N.; Wen, Z.; Sun, X.; Chai, Y.; Ma, Z. Wheat microbiome bacteria can reduce virulence of a plantpathogenic fungus by altering histone acetylation. Nat. Commun. 2018 ,9, 3429. [CrossRef] [PubMed]322. Du Jardin, P . Plant biostimulants: Deﬁnition, concept, main categories and regulation. Sci. Hortic. 2015 ,196, 3–14. [CrossRef]323. Mandal, S.; Mitra, A. Reinforcement of cell wall in roots of Lycopersicon esculentum through induction of phenolic compounds andlignin by elicitors. Physiol. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2007 ,71, 201–209. [CrossRef]324. Egusa, M.; Matsui, H.; Urakami, T.; Okuda, S.; Ifuku, S.; Nakagami, H.; Kaminaka, H. Chitin nanoﬁber elucidates the elicitoractivity of polymeric chitin in plants. Front. Plant Sci. 2015 ,6, 1098. [CrossRef] [PubMed]325. Proietti, S.; Giangrande, C.; Amoresano, A.; Pucci, P .; Molinaro, A.; Bertini, L.; Caporale, C.; Caruso, C. Xanthomonas campestrislipooligosaccharides trigger innate immunity and oxidative burst in Arabidopsis .Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2014 ,85, 51–62. [CrossRef]326. Nowak, A.; Ty´ skiewicz, R.; Wiater, A.; Jaroszuk-´ sciseł, J. (1 !3)--D-glucooligosaccharides as elicitors inﬂuencing the activity ofplant resistance pathways in wheat tissues. Agronomy 2022 ,12, 1170. [CrossRef]327. Ramkissoon, A.; Francis, J.; Bowrin, V .; Ramjegathesh, R.; Ramsubhag, A.; Jayaraman, J. Bio-efﬁcacy of a chitosan based elicitoronAlternaria solani and Xanthomonas vesicatoria infections in tomato under tropical conditions. Ann. Appl. Biol. 2016 ,169, 274–283.[CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 42 of 47328. Qiu, H.; Su, L.; Wang, H.; Zhang, Z. Chitosan elicitation of saponin accumulation in Psammosilene tunicoides hairy roots bymodulating antioxidant activity, nitric oxide production and differential gene expression. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 2021 ,166,115–127. [CrossRef]329. Aziz, A.; Poinssot, B.; Daire, X.; Adrian, M.; B ézier, A.; Lambert, B.; Joubert, J.M.; Pugin, A. Laminarin elicits defense responses ingrapevine and induces protection against Botrytis cinerea and Plasmopara viticola .Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2003 ,16, 1118–1128.[CrossRef] [PubMed]330. Cashel, M.; Gallant, J. Two compounds implicated in the function of the RCgene of Escherichia coli .Nature 1969 ,221, 838–841.[CrossRef] [PubMed]331. Boniecka, J.; Prusi´ nska, J.; D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Goc, A. Within and beyond the stringent response-RSH and (p)ppGpp in plants.Planta 2017 ,246, 817–842. [CrossRef] [PubMed]332. D ˛ abrowska, G.; Prusi ´ nska, J.; Goc, A. The stringent response—Bacterial mechanism of an adaptive stress response. Adv. Biochem.2006 ,52, 87–93.333. Berdychowska, J.; Boniecka, J.; D ˛ abrowska, G.B. The stringent response and its involvement in the reactions of bacterial cells tostress. Adv. Microbiol. 2019 ,58, 127–142. [CrossRef]334. Irving, S.E.; Corrigan, R.M.Y.R. Triggering the stringent response: Signals responsible for activating (p)ppGpp synthesis inbacteria. Microbiology 2018 ,164, 268–276. [CrossRef]335. Irving, S.E.; Choudhury, N.R.; Corrigan, R.M. The stringent response and physiological roles of (pp)pGpp in bacteria. Nat. Rev.Microbiol. 2021 ,19, 256–271. [CrossRef]336. Sun, D.; Lee, G.; Lee, J.H.; Kim, H.Y.; Rhee, H.W.; Park, S.Y.; Kim, K.J.; Kim, Y.; Kim, B.Y.; Hong, J.I.; et al. A metazoan ortholog ofSpoT hydrolyzes ppGpp and functions in starvation responses. Nat. Struct. Mol. Biol. 2010 ,17, 1188–1194. [CrossRef]337. Sanchez-Vazquez, P .; Dewey, C.N.; Kitten, N.; Ross, W.; Gourse, R.L. Genome-wide effects on Escherichia coli transcription fromppGpp binding to its two sites on RNA polymerase. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2019 ,116, 8310–8319. [CrossRef]338. Seyfzadeh, M.; Keener, J.; Nomura, M. spoT-dependent accumulation of guanosine tetraphosphate in response to fatty acidstarvation in Escherichia coli .Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1993 ,90, 11004–11008. [CrossRef]339. Battesti, A.; Bouveret, E. Acyl carrier protein/SpoT interaction, the switch linking SpoT-dependent stress response to fatty acidmetabolism. Mol. Microbiol. 2006 ,62, 1048–1063. [CrossRef] [PubMed]340. Vinella, D.; Albrecht, C.; Cashel, M.; D’Ari, R. Iron limitation induces SpoT-dependent accumulation of ppGpp in Escherichia coli .Mol. Microbiol. 2005 ,56, 958–970. [CrossRef] [PubMed]341. Flardh, K.; Axberg, T.; Albertson, N.H.; Kjelleberg, S. Stringent control during carbon starvation of marine Vibrio sp. strain S14:Molecular cloning, nucleotide sequence, and deletion of the relA gene. J. Bacteriol. 1994 ,176, 5949–5957. [CrossRef] [PubMed]342. Brown, D.R.; Barton, G.; Pan, Z.; Buck, M.; Wigneshweraraj, S. Nitrogen stress response and stringent response are coupled inEscherichia coli .Nat. Commun. 2014 ,5, 4115. [CrossRef] [PubMed]343. Sivapragasam, S.; Deochand, D.K.; Meariman, J.K.; Grove, A. The stringent response induced by phosphate limitation promotespurine salvage in Agrobacterium fabrum .Biochemistry 2017 ,56, 5831–5843. [CrossRef] [PubMed]344. English, B.P .; Hauryliuk, V .; Sanamrad, A.; Tankov, S.; Dekker, N.H.; Elf, J. Single-molecule investigations of the stringent responsemachinery in living bacterial cells. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2011 ,108, E365–E373. [CrossRef]345. Gallant, J.; Palmer, L.; Pao, C.C. Anomalous synthesis of ppGpp in growing cells. Cell1977 ,11, 181–185. [CrossRef]346. Thackray, P .D.; Moir, A. SigM, an extracytoplasmic function sigma factor of Bacillus subtilis , is activated in response to cell wallantibiotics, ethanol, heat, acid, and superoxide stress. J. Bacteriol. 2003 ,185, 3491–3498. [CrossRef]347. Anderson, K.L.; Roux, C.M.; Olson, M.W.; Luong, T.T.; Lee, C.Y.; Olson, R.; Dunman, P .M. Characterizing the effects of inorganicacid and alkaline shock on the Staphylococcus aureus transcriptome and messenger RNA turnover. FEMS Immunol. Med. Microbiol.2010 ,60, 208–250. [CrossRef]348. Heizmann, P .; Howell, S.H. Synthesis of ppGpp and chloroplast ribosomal RNA in Chlamydomonas reinhardi .Biochim. Biophys.Acta 1978 ,517, 115–124. [CrossRef]349. Van der Biezen, E.A. Arabidopsis RelA/SpoT homologs implicate (p)ppGpp in plant signaling. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2000 ,97,3747–3752. [CrossRef] [PubMed]350. Givens, R.M.; Lin, M.-H.; Taylor, D.J.; Mechold, U.; Berry, J.O.; Hernandez, V .J. Inducible expression, enzymatic activity, andorigin of higher plant homologues of bacterial RelA/SpoT stress proteins in Nicotiana tabacum .J. Biol. Chem. 2004 ,279, 7495–7504.[CrossRef] [PubMed]351. Xiong, L.; Lee, M.W.; Qi, M.; Yang, Y. Identiﬁcation of defense-related rice genes by suppression subtractive hybridization anddifferential screening. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2001 ,14, 685–692. [CrossRef] [PubMed]352. D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Prusi´ nska, J.; Goc, A. Identiﬁcation of the RSH gene cDNA ( RelA-SpoT homolog) involved in Pharbitis nilresponse to stress conditions. Zesz. Probl. Post˛ ep ów Nauk. Rol. 2006 ,509, 343–351.353. Yamada, A.; Tsutsumi, K.; Tanimoto, S.; Ozeki, Y. Plant RelA/SpoT homolog confers salt tolerance in Escherichia coli andSaccharomyces cerevisiae .Plant Cell Physiol. 2003 ,44, 3–9. [CrossRef]354. Kim, T.-H.; Ok, S.H.; Kim, D.; Suh, S.-C.; Byun, M.O.; Shin, J.S. Molecular characterization of a biotic and abiotic stressresistance-related gene RelA/SpoT homologue ( PepRSH ) from pepper. Plant Sci. 2009 ,176, 635–642. [CrossRef]355. Sato, M.; Takahashi, T.; Ochi, K.; Matsuura, H.; Nabeta, K.; Takahashi, K. Overexpression of RelA/SpoT homologs, PpRSH2a andPpRSH2b , induces the growth suppression of the moss Physcomitrella patens .Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 2015 ,79, 36–44. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 43 of 47356. Mizusawa, K.; Masuda, S.; Ohta, H. Expression proﬁling of four RelA/SpoT-like proteins, homologues of bacterial stringentfactors, in Arabidopsis thaliana .Planta 2008 ,228, 553–562. [CrossRef]357. Atkinson, G.C.; Tenson, T.; Hauryliuk, V . The RelA/SpoT Homolog ( RSH ) superfamily: Distribution and functional evolution ofppGpp synthetases and hydrolases across the tree of life. PLoS ONE 2011 ,6, e23479. [CrossRef]358. Shin, J.; Singal, B.; Grüber, A.; Wong, D.M.K.; Ragunathan, P .; Grüber, G. Atomic structure of the regulatory TGS domain of Relprotein from Mycobacterium tuberculosis and its interaction with deacylated tRNA. FEBS Lett. 2021 ,595, 3006–3018. [CrossRef]359. Tozawa, Y.; Nozawa, A.; Kanno, T.; Narisawa, T.; Masuda, S.; Kasai, K.; Nanamiya, H. Calcium-activated (p)ppGpp synthetase inchloroplasts of land plants. J. Biol. Chem. 2007 ,282, 35536–35545. [CrossRef] [PubMed]360. Ito, K.; Ito, D.; Goto, M.; Suzuki, S.; Masuda, S.; Iba, K.; Kusumi, K. Regulation of ppGpp synthesis and its impact on chloroplastbiogenesis during early leaf development in rice. Plant Cell Physiol. 2022 ,63, 919–931. [CrossRef] [PubMed]361. Yamburenko, M.V .; Zubo, Y.O.; Börner, T. Abscisic acid affects transcription of chloroplast genes via protein phosphatase 2C-dependent activation of nuclear genes: Repression by guanosine-30-50-bisdiphosphate and activation by sigma factor 5. Plant J.2015 ,82, 1030–1041. [CrossRef] [PubMed]362. Kasai, K.; Kanno, T.; Endo, Y.; Wakasa, K.; Tozawa, Y. Guanosine tetra- and pentaphosphate synthase activity in chloroplasts of ahigher plant: Association with 70S ribosomes and inhibition by tetracycline. Nucleic Acids Res. 2004 ,32, 5732–5741. [CrossRef]363. Imamura, S.; Nomura, Y.; Takemura, T.; Pancha, I.; Taki, K.; Toguchi, K.; Tozawa, Y.; Tanaka, K. The checkpoint kinase TOR(target of rapamycin) regulates expression of a nuclear-encoded chloroplast RelA-SpoT homolog ( RSH ) and modulates chloroplastribosomal RNA synthesis in a unicellular red alga. Plant J. 2018 ,94, 327–339. [CrossRef]364. Sugliani, M.; Abdelkeﬁ, H.; Ke, H.; Bouveret, E.; Robaglia, C.; Caffarri, S.; Field, B. An ancient bacterial signaling pathwayregulates chloroplast function to inﬂuence growth and development in Arabidopsis .Plant Cell 2016 ,28, 661–679. [CrossRef]365. Abdelkeﬁ, H.; Sugliani, M.; Ke, H.; Harchouni, S.; Soubigou-Taconnat, L.; Citerne, S.; Mouille, G.; Fakhfakh, H.; Robaglia, C.;Field, B. Guanosine tetraphosphate modulates salicylic acid signalling and the resistance of Arabidopsis thaliana to turnip mosaicvirus. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2018 ,19, 634–646. [CrossRef]366. Kahlau, S.; Bock, R. Plastid transcriptomics and translatomics of tomato fruit development and chloroplast-to-chromoplastdifferentiation: Chromoplast gene expression largely serves the production of a single protein. Plant Cell 2008 ,20, 856–874.[CrossRef]367. Maekawa, M.; Honoki, R.; Ihara, Y.; Sato, R.; Oikawa, A.; Kanno, Y.; Ohta, H.; Seo, M.; Saito, K.; Masuda, S. Impact of the plastidialstringent response in plant growth and stress responses. Nat. Plants 2015 ,1, 15167. [CrossRef]368. Honoki, R.; Ono, S.; Oikawa, A.; Saito, K.; Masuda, S. Signiﬁcance of accumulation of the alarmone (p)ppGpp in chloroplasts forcontrolling photosynthesis and metabolite balance during nitrogen starvation in Arabidopsis .Photosynth. Res. 2018 ,135, 299–308.[CrossRef]369. Romand, S.; Abdelkeﬁ, H.; Lecampion, C.; Belaroussi, M.; Dussenne, M.; Ksas, B.; Citerne, S.; Caius, J.; D’alessandro, S.; Fakhfakh,H.; et al. A guanosine tetraphosphate (ppGpp) mediated brake on photosynthesis is required for acclimation to nitrogen limitationinArabidopsis .eLife 2022 ,11, 75041. [CrossRef]370. Li, H.; Nian, J.; Fang, S.; Guo, M.; Huang, X.; Zhang, F.; Wang, Q.; Zhang, J.; Bai, J.; Dong, G.; et al. Regulation of nitrogenstarvation responses by the alarmone (p)ppGpp in rice. J. Genet. Genom. 2022 ,49, 469–480. [CrossRef] [PubMed]371. Takahashi, K.; Kasai, K.; Ochi, K. Identiﬁcation of the bacterial alarmone guanosine 50-diphosphate 30-diphosphate (ppGpp) inplants. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2004 ,101, 4320–4324. [CrossRef] [PubMed]372. Masuda, S.; Mizusawa, K.; Narisawa, T.; Tozawa, Y.; Ohta, H.; Takamiya, K.I. The bacterial stringent response, conserved inchloroplasts, controls plant fertilization. Plant Cell Physiol. 2008 ,49, 135–141. [CrossRef] [PubMed]373. Ono, S.; Suzuki, S.; Ito, D.; Tagawa, S.; Shiina, T.; Masuda, S. Plastidial (p)ppGpp synthesis by the Ca2+-dependent RelA–SpoThomolog regulates the adaptation of chloroplast gene expression to darkness in Arabidopsis .Plant Cell Physiol. 2021 ,61, 2077–2086.[CrossRef]374. Nowicki, D.; Rodzik, O.; Herman-Antosiewicz, A.; Szalewska-Pałasz, A. Isothiocyanates as effective agents against enterohemor-rhagic Escherichia coli : Insight to the mode of action. Sci. Rep. 2016 ,6, 22263. [CrossRef]375. Mi, L.; Hood, B.L.; Stewart, N.A.; Xiao, Z.; Govind, S.; Wang, X.; Conrads, T.P .; Veenstra, T.D.; Chung, F.-L. Identiﬁcation ofpotential protein targets of isothiocyanates by proteomics. Chem. Res. Toxicol. 2011 ,24, 1735–1743. [CrossRef]376. Mwita, L.; Chan, W.Y.; Pretorius, T.; Lyantagaye, S.L.; Lapa, S.V .; Avdeeva, L.V .; Reva, O.N. Gene expression regulation in theplant growth promoting Bacillus atrophaeus UCMB-5137 stimulated by maize root exudates. Gene 2016 ,590, 18–28. [CrossRef]377. D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Turkan, S.; Tylman-Moj ˙zeszek, W.; Mierek-Adamska, A. In silico study of the RSH (Rela/spot homologs) genefamily and expression analysis in response to PGPR bacteria and salinity in Brassica napus .Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2021 ,22, 10666.[CrossRef]378. Chapelle, E.; Mendes, R.; Bakker, P .A.H.; Raaijmakers, J.M. Fungal invasion of the rhizosphere microbiome. ISME J. 2016 ,10,265–268. [CrossRef]379. Manuel, J.; Berry, C.; Selin, C.; Fernando, W.G.D.; de Kievit, T.R. Repression of the antifungal activity of Pseudomonas sp. strainDF41 by the stringent response. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2011 ,77, 5635–5642. [CrossRef] [PubMed]380. Manuel, J.; Selin, C.; Dilantha Fernando, W.G.; de Kievi, T. Stringent response mutants of Pseudomonas chlororaphis PA23 exhibitenhanced antifungal activity against Sclerotinia sclerotiorum in vitro .Microbiology 2012 ,158, 207–216. [CrossRef] [PubMed]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 44 of 47381. Selin, C.; Manuel, J.; Fernando, W.G.D.; de Kievit, T. Expression of the Pseudomonas chlororaphis strain PA23 Rsm system is undercontrol of GacA, RpoS, PsrA , quorum sensing and the stringent response. Biol. Control 2014 ,69, 24–33. [CrossRef]382. Takeuchi, K.; Yamada, K.; Haas, D. ppGpp controlled by the Gac/Rsm regulatory pathway sustains biocontrol activity inPseudomonas ﬂuorescens CHA0. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2012 ,25, 1440–1449. [CrossRef] [PubMed]383. Ochi, K. A relmutation abolishes the enzyme induction needed for actinomycin synthesis by Streptomyces antibioticus .Agric. Biol.Chem. 2014 ,51, 829–835.384. Ryu, Y.G.; Wook, J.; Jin, Y.K.; Jae, Y.K.; Sang, H.L.; Kye, J.L. Stringent factor regulates antibiotics production and morphologicaldifferentiation of Streptomyces clavuligerus .J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2004 ,14, 1170–1175.385. Brechenmacher, L.; Lei, Z.; Libault, M.; Findley, S.; Sugawara, M.; Sadowsky, M.J.; Sumner, L.W.; Stacey, G. Soybean metabolitesregulated in root hairs in response to the symbiotic bacterium Bradyrhizobium japonicum .Plant Physiol. 2010 ,153, 1808–1822.[CrossRef]386. Murray, J.D. Invasion by invitation: Rhizobial infection in legumes. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2011 ,24, 631–639. [CrossRef]387. Tsyganova, A.V .; Brewin, N.J.; Tsyganov, V .E. Structure and development of the legume-rhizobial symbiotic interface in infectionthreads. Cells 2021 ,10, 1050. [CrossRef]388. Pérez-Gim énez, J.; Iturralde, E.T.; Torres Tejerizo, G.; Quelas, J.I.; Krol, E.; Borassi, C.; Becker, A.; Estevez, J.M.; Lodeiro, A.R. Astringent-response-defective Bradyrhizobium diazoefﬁciens strain does not activate the type 3 secretion system, elicits an early plantdefense response, and circumvents NH 4NO 3-induced inhibition of nodulation. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2021 ,87, e02989-20.[CrossRef]389. Wippel, K.; Long, S.R. Symbiotic performance of Sinorhizobium meliloti lacking ppGpp depends on the Medicago host species. Mol.Plant Microbe Interact. 2019 ,32, 717–728. [CrossRef] [PubMed]390. Wells, D.H.; Long, S.R. The Sinorhizobium meliloti stringent response affects multiple aspects of symbiosis. Mol. Microbiol. 2002 ,43,1115–1127. [CrossRef] [PubMed]391. Moris, M.; Braeken, K.; Schoeters, E.; Verreth, C.; Beullens, S.; Vanderleyden, J.; Michiels, J. Effective symbiosis between Rhizobiumetliand Phaseolus vulgaris requires the alarmone ppGpp. J. Bacteriol. 2005 ,187, 5460–5469. [CrossRef] [PubMed]392. Calder ón-Flores, A.; du Pont, G.; Huerta-Saquero, A.; Merchant-Larios, H.; Serv ín-Gonz ález, L.; Dur án, S. The stringent responseis required for amino acid and nitrate utilization, nod factor regulation, nodulation, and nitrogen ﬁxation in Rhizobium etli .J. Bacteriol. 2005 ,187, 5075. [CrossRef] [PubMed]393. Qiu, X.; Gao, T.; Yang, J.; Wang, E.; Liu, L.; Yuan, H. Water-soluble humic materials modulating metabolism and triggering stressdefense in Sinorhizobium fredii .Microbiol. Spectr. 2021 ,9, e00293-21. [CrossRef] [PubMed]394. Ancona, V .; Lee, J.H.; Chatnaparat, T.; Oh, J.; Hong, J.I.; Zhao, Y. The bacterial alarmone (p)ppGpp activates the type III secretionsystem in Erwinia amylovora .J. Bacteriol. 2015 ,197, 1433–1443. [CrossRef] [PubMed]395. Chatnaparat, T.; Li, Z.; Korban, S.S.; Zhao, Y. The bacterial alarmone (p)ppGpp is required for virulence and controls cell size andsurvival of Pseudomonas syringae on plants. Environ. Microbiol. 2015 ,17, 4253–4270. [CrossRef]396. Chatnaparat, T.; Li, Z.; Korban, S.S.; Zhao, Y. The stringent response mediated by (p)ppGpp is required for virulence ofPseudomonas syringae pv. tomato and its survival on tomato. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2015 ,28, 776–789. [CrossRef]397. Bowden, S.D.; Hale, N.; Chung, J.C.S.; Hodgkinson, J.T.; Spring, D.R.; Welch, M. Surface swarming motility by Pectobacteriumatrosepticum is a latent phenotype that requires O antigen and is regulated by quorum sensing. Microbiology 2013 ,159, 2375–2385.[CrossRef]398. Petrova, O.; Gorshkov, V .; Sergeeva, I.; Daminova, A.; Ageeva, M.; Gogolev, Y. Alternative scenarios of starvation-inducedadaptation in Pectobacterium atrosepticum .Res. Microbiol. 2016 ,167, 254–261. [CrossRef]399. Zhang, Y.; Teper, D.; Xu, J.; Wang, N. Stringent response regulators (p)ppGpp and DksA positively regulate virulence and hostadaptation of Xanthomonas citri .Mol. Plant. Pathol. 2019 ,20, 1550–1565. [CrossRef] [PubMed]400. Harman, G.E.; Howell, C.R.; Viterbo, A.; Chet, I.; Lorito, M. Trichoderma species—Opportunistic, avirulent plant symbionts. Nat.Rev. Microbiol. 2004 ,2, 43–56. [CrossRef] [PubMed]401. Wojtkowiak-G˛ ebarowska, E. Mechanisms of biological control soil-borne plant pathogen by fungus from genus Trichoderma .Adv.Microbiol. 2006 ,45, 261–273.402. Bustamante, D.E.; Calderon, M.S.; Leiva, S.; Mendoza, J.E.; Arce, M.; Oliva, M. Three new species of Trichoderma in the Harzianumand Longibrachiatum lineages from Peruvian cacao crop soils based on an integrative approach. Mycologia 2021 ,113, 1056–1072.[CrossRef]403. Pascale, A.; Vinale, F.; Manganiello, G.; Nigro, M.; Lanzuise, S.; Ruocco, M.; Marra, R.; Lombardi, N.; Woo, S.L.; Lorito, M.Trichoderma and its secondary metabolites improve yield and quality of grapes. Crop Prot. 2017 ,92, 176–181. [CrossRef]404. Srivastava, S.N.; Singh, V .; Awasthi, S.K. Trichoderma induced improvement in growth, yield and quality of sugarcane. Sugar Tech2006 ,8, 166–169. [CrossRef]405. Colla, G.; Rouphael, Y.; di Mattia, E.; El-Nakhel, C.; Cardarelli, M. Co-inoculation of Glomus intraradices and Trichoderma atrovirideacts as a biostimulant to promote growth, yield and nutrient uptake of vegetable crops. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2015 ,95, 1706–1715.[CrossRef]406. Rudresh, D.L.; Shivaprakash, M.K.; Prasad, R.D. Effect of combined application of Rhizobium , phosphate solubilizing bacteriumand Trichoderma spp. on growth, nutrient uptake and yield of chickpea ( Cicer aritenium L.).Appl. Soil Ecol. 2005 ,28, 139–146.[CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 45 of 47407. Khomari, S.; Golshan-Doust, S.; Seyed-Shariﬁ, R.; Davari, M. Improvement of soybean seedling growth under salinity stress bybiopriming of high-vigour seeds with salt-tolerant isolate of Trichoderma harzianum .N. Z. J. Crop Hortic. Sci. 2018 ,46, 117–132.[CrossRef]408. Asaduzzaman, M.; Alam, M.; Islam, M. Effect of Trichoderma on seed germination and seedling parameters of chili. J. Sci. Found.2013 ,8, 141–150. [CrossRef]409. Vargas, W.A.; Mandawe, J.C.; Kenerley, C.M. Plant-derived sucrose is a key element in the symbiotic association betweenTrichoderma virens and maize plants. Plant Physiol. 2009 ,151, 792–808. [CrossRef]410. Brotman, Y.; Lisec, J.; M éret, M.; Chet, I.; Willmitzer, L.; Viterbo, A. Transcript and metabolite analysis of the Trichoderma -inducedsystemic resistance response to Pseudomonas syringae inArabidopsis thaliana .Microbiology 2012 ,158, 139–146. [CrossRef] [PubMed]411. Contreras-Cornejo, H.A.; Mac ías-Rodr íguez, L.; Vergara, A.G.; L ópez-Bucio, J. Trichoderma modulates stomatal aperture and leaftranspiration through an abscisic acid-dependent mechanism in Arabidopsis .J. Plant Growth Regul. 2015 ,34, 425–432. [CrossRef]412. Bae, H.; Sicher, R.C.; Kim, M.S.; Kim, S.-H.; Strem, M.D.; Melnick, R.L.; Bailey, B.A. The beneﬁcial endophyte Trichoderma hamatumisolate DIS 219b promotes growth and delays the onset of the drought response in Theobroma cacao .J. Exp. Bot. 2009 ,60, 3279–3295.[CrossRef] [PubMed]413. Shoresh, M.; Harman, G.E. The molecular basis of shoot responses of maize seedlings to Trichoderma harzianum T22 inoculation ofthe root: A proteomic approach. Plant Physiol. 2008 ,147, 2147–2163. [CrossRef]414. Mercl, F.; Garc ía-Sánchez, M.; Kulh ánek, M.; Košn áˇ r, Z.; Sz áková, J.; Tlustoš, P . Improved phosphorus fertilisation efﬁ-ciency of wood ash by fungal strains Penicillium sp. PK112 and Trichoderma harzianum OMG08 on acidic soil. Appl. SoilEcol. 2020 ,147, 103360. [CrossRef]415. Fu, J.; Xiao, Y.; Wang, Y.; Liu, Z.; Yang, K. Saline–alkaline stress in growing maize seedlings is alleviated by Trichoderma asperellumthrough regulation of the soil environment. Sci. Rep. 2021 ,11, 11152. [CrossRef]416. Zhang, F.; Xu, X.; Wang, G.; Wu, B.; Xiao, Y. Medicago sativa and soil microbiome responses to Trichoderma as a biofertilizer inalkaline-saline soils. Appl. Soil Ecol. 2020 ,153, 103573. [CrossRef]417. Adams, P .; De-Leij, F.A.A.M.; Lynch, J.M. Trichoderma harzianum Rifai 1295-22 mediates growth promotion of crack willow(Salix fragilis ) saplings in both clean and metal-contaminated soil. Microb. Ecol. 2007 ,54, 306–313. [CrossRef]418. López Errasqu ín, E.; V ázquez, C. Tolerance and uptake of heavy metals by Trichoderma atroviride isolated from sludge. Chemosphere2003 ,50, 137–143. [CrossRef]419. Rajendran, L.; Raja, P .; Jegadeeswari, V .; Santhi, V .P .; Selvaraj, N. Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens and Trichoderma viride enrichedbioconsortium for the management of Fusarium wilt in carnation and gerbera under protected cultivation. Indian Phytopathol.2014 ,67, 77–81.420. Ambuse, M.G.; Chatage, V .S.; Bhale, U.N. Inﬂuence of Trichoderma spp against Alternaria tenuissima incitining leaf spot of Rumexacetosa L.Biosci. Discov. 2012 ,3, 259–262.421. De Padua, J.C.; de la Cruz, T.E.E. Isolation and characterization of nickel-tolerant Trichoderma strains from marine and terrestrialenvironments. J. Fungi 2021 ,7, 591. [CrossRef] [PubMed]422. Sánchez-Montesinos, B.; Di ánez, F.; Moreno-Gavira, A.; Gea, F.J.; Santos, M. Plant growth promotion and biocontrol of Pythiumultimum by saline tolerant Trichoderma isolates under salinity stress. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2019 ,16, 2053. [CrossRef][PubMed]423. Shi, Z.-Z.; Miao, F.-P .; Fang, S.-T.; Yin, X.-L.; Ji, N.-Y. Sulfurated diketopiperazines from an algicolous isolate of Trichoderma virens .Phytochem. Lett. 2018 ,27, 101–104. [CrossRef]424. Touati, I.; Ruiz, N.; Thomas, O.; Druzhinina, I.S.; Atanasova, L.; Tabbene, O.; Elkahoui, S.; Benzekri, R.; Bouslama, L.; Pouchus, Y.F.;et al. Hyporientalin A, an anti-Candida peptaibol from a marine Trichoderma orientale .World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2018 ,34, 98.[CrossRef]425. Zhang, C.; Wang, W.; Hu, Y.; Peng, Z.; Ren, S.; Xue, M.; Liu, Z.; Hou, J.; Xing, M.; Liu, T. A novel salt-tolerant strain Trichodermaatroviride HN082102.1 isolated from marine habitat alleviates salt stress and diminishes cucumber root rot caused by Fusariumoxysporum .BMC Microbiol. 2022 ,22, 67. [CrossRef]426. Gal-Hemed, I.; Atanasova, L.; Komon-Zelazowska, M.; Druzhinina, I.S.; Viterbo, A.; Yarden, O. Marine isolates of Trichodermaspp. as potential halotolerant agents of biological control for arid-zone agriculture. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 2011 ,77, 5100–5109.[CrossRef]427. Nogueira-Lopez, G.; Greenwood, D.R.; Middleditch, M.; Wineﬁeld, C.; Eaton, C.; Steyaert, J.M.; Mendoza-Mendoza, A. Theapoplastic secretome of Trichoderma virens during interaction with maize roots shows an inhibition of plant defence and scavengingoxidative stress secreted proteins. Front. Plant Sci. 2018 ,9, 409. [CrossRef]428. Sofo, A.; Scopa, A.; Manfra, M.; de Nisco, M.; Tenore, G.; Troisi, J.; di Fiori, R.; Novellino, E. Trichoderma harzianum strain T-22induces changes in phytohormone levels in cherry rootstocks ( Prunus cerasusP . canescens ).Plant Growth Regul. 2011 ,65, 421–425.[CrossRef]429. Yedidia, I.; Shoresh, M.; Kerem, Z.; Benhamou, N.; Kapulnik, Y.; Chet, I. Concomitant induction of systemic resistance toPseudomonas syringae pv. lachrymans in cucumber by Trichoderma asperellum (T-203) and accumulation of phytoalexins. Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 2003 ,69, 7343–7353. [PubMed]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 46 of 47430. Akhter, W.; Bhuiyan, M.K.A.; Sultana, F.; Hossain, M.M. Integrated effect of microbial antagonist, organic amendment andfungicide in controlling seedling mortality ( Rhizoctonia solani ) and improving yield in pea ( Pisum sativum L.).Comptes Rendus.Biol. 2015 ,338, 21–28. [CrossRef] [PubMed]431. Howell, C.R.; Hanson, L.E.; Stipanovic, R.D.; Puckhaber, L.S. Induction of terpenoid synthesis in cotton roots and control ofRhizoctonia solani by seed treatment with Trichoderma virens .Phytopatology 2000 ,90, 248–252. [CrossRef] [PubMed]432. Gomes, E.V .; Costa, M.D.N.; de Paula, R.G.; Ricci De Azevedo, R.; da Silva, F.L.; Noronha, E.F.; Jos éUlhoa, C.; Neves Monteiro, V .;Elena Cardoza, R.; Guti érrez, S.; et al. The cerato-platanin protein Epl-1 from Trichoderma harzianum is involved in mycoparasitism,plant resistance induction and self cell wall protection. Sci. Rep. 2015 ,5, 17998. [CrossRef] [PubMed]433. Howell, C.R. Cotton seedling preemergence damping-off incited by Rhizopus oryzae and Pythium spp. and its biological controlwith Trichoderma spp. Phytopathology 2002 ,92, 177–180. [CrossRef] [PubMed]434. Hossain, M.M.; Hossain, N.; Sultana, F.; Mohammad, S.; Islam, N.; Khurshed, M.; Bhuiyan, A. Integrated management ofFusarium wilt of chickpea ( Cicer arietinum L.) caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceris with microbial antagonist, botanicalextract sp. ciceris with microbial antagonist, botanical extract. Afr. J. Biotechnol. 2016 ,12, 4699–4706.435. Vujanovic, V .; Goh, Y.K. qPCR quantiﬁcation of sphaerodes mycoparasitica biotrophic mycoparasite interaction with Fusariumgraminearum : In vitro and in planta assays. Arch. Microbiol. 2012 ,194, 707–717. [CrossRef]436. Gveroska, B.; Ziberoski, J. Trichoderma harzianum as a biocontrol agent against Alternaria alternata on tobacco. Appl. Technol. Innov.2012 ,7, 67–76. [CrossRef]437. Matroudi, S.; Zamani, M.; Motallebi, M. Antagonistic effects of three species of Trichoderma sp. on Sclerotinia sclerotiorum , thecausal agent of canola stem rot. Egypt. Acad. J. Biol. Sci. 2010 ,11, 37–44.438. De Meyer, G.; Bigirimana, J.; Elad, Y.; Höfte, M. Induced systemic resistance in Trichoderma harzianum T39 biocontrol of Botrytiscinerea .Eur. J. Plant Pathol. 1998 ,104, 279–286. [CrossRef]439. Herrera-T éllez, V .I.; Cruz-Olmedo, A.K.; Plasencia, J.; Gavilanes-Ru íz, M.; Arce-Cervantes, O.; Hern ández-Le ón, S.; Saucedo-García, M. The protective effect of Trichoderma asperellum on tomato plants against Fusarium oxysporum and Botrytis cinerea diseasesinvolves inhibition of reactive oxygen species production. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2019 ,20, 2007. [CrossRef] [PubMed]440. Cuervo-Parra, J.A.; P érez España, V .H.; Zavala-Gonz ález, E.A.; Peralta-Gil, M.; Aparicio Burgos, J.E.; Romero-Cortes, T. Tri-choderma asperellum strains as potential biological control agents against Fusarium verticillioides and Ustilago maydis in maize.Biocontrol. Sci. Technol. 2022 ,32, 624–647. [CrossRef]441. Daniel, J.F.D.S.; Rodrigues Filho, E. Peptaibols of Trichoderma .Nat. Prod. Rep. 2007 ,24, 1128–1141. [CrossRef]442. Degenkolb, T.; Berg, A.; Gams, W.; Schlegel, B.; Gräfe, U. The occurrence of peptaibols and structurally related peptaibiotics infungi and their mass spectrometric identiﬁcation via diagnostic fragment ions. J. Pept. Sci. 2003 ,9, 666–678. [CrossRef] [PubMed]443. Shi, M.; Chen, L.; Wang, X.W.; Zhang, T.; Zhao, P .B.; Song, X.Y.; Sun, C.Y.; Chen, X.L.; Zhou, B.C.; Zhang, Y.Z. Antimicrobialpeptaibols from Trichoderma pseudokoningii induce programmed cell death in plant fungal pathogens. Microbiology 2012 ,158,166–175. [CrossRef]444. Zhang, Y.-Q.; Zhang, S.; Sun, M.-L.; Su, H.-N.; Li, H.-Y.; Liu, K.; Zhang, Y.-Z.; Chen, X.-L.; Cao, H.-Y.; Song, X.-Y. Antibacterialactivity of peptaibols from Trichoderma longibrachiatum SMF2 against gram-negative Xanthomonas oryzae pv.oryzae , the causalagent of bacterial leaf blight on rice. Front. Microbiol. 2022 ,13, 1034779.445. Zhao, P .; Ren, A.; Dong, P .; Sheng, Y.; Li, D. Antimicrobial peptaibols, trichokonins, inhibit mycelial growth and sporulation andinduce cell apoptosis in the pathogenic fungus Botrytis cinerea .Appl. Biochem. Microbiol. 2018 ,54, 396–403. [CrossRef]446. Otto, A.; Laub, A.; Wendt, L.; Porzel, A.; Schmidt, J.; Palfner, G.; Becerra, J.; Krüger, D.; Stadler, M.; Wessjohann, L.; et al.Chilenopeptins A and B, peptaibols from the Chilean Sepedonium aff.chalcipori KSH 883. J. Nat. Prod. 2016 ,79, 929–938. [CrossRef]447. Tamandegani, P .R.; Marik, T.; Zafari, D.; Bal ázs, D.; V ágvölgyi, C.; Szekeres, A.; Kredics, L. Changes in peptaibol production ofTrichoderma species during in vitro antagonistic interactions with fungal plant pathogens. Biomolecules 2020 ,10, 730. [CrossRef]448. Luo, Y.; Zhang, D.D.; Dong, X.W.; Zhao, P .B.; Chen, L.L.; Song, X.Y.; Wang, X.J.; Chen, X.L.; Shi, M.; Zhang, Y.Z. Antimicrobialpeptaibols induce defense responses and systemic resistance in tobacco against tobacco mosaic virus. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2010 ,313, 120–126. [CrossRef]449. Marik, T.; Tyagi, C.; Bal ázs, D.; Urb án, P .; Szepesi, Á.; Bakacsy, L.; Endre, G.; Rakk, D.; Szekeres, A.; Andersson, M.A.; et al.Structural diversity and bioactivities of peptaibol compounds from the Longibrachiatum clade of the ﬁlamentous fungal genusTrichoderma .Front. Microbiol. 2019 ,10, 1434. [CrossRef] [PubMed]450. Shoresh, M.; Yedidia, I.; Chet, I. Involvement of jasmonic acid/ethylene signaling pathway in the systemic resistance induced incucumber by Trichoderma asperellum T203. Phytopathology 2005 ,95, 76–84. [CrossRef]451. Yedidia, I.; Benhamou, N.; Chet, I. Induction of defense responses in cucumber plants ( Cucumis sativus L.) by the biocontrol agentTrichoderma harzianum .Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 1999 ,65, 1061–1070. [CrossRef] [PubMed]452. Huang, X.; Chen, L.; Ran, W.; Shen, Q.; Yang, X. Trichoderma harzianum strain SQR-T37 and its bio-organic fertilizer could controlRhizoctonia solani damping-off disease in cucumber seedlings mainly by the mycoparasitism. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 2011 ,91,741–755. [CrossRef] [PubMed]453. Mendoza-Mendoza, A.; Zaid, R.; Lawry, R.; Hermosa, R.; Monte, E.; Horwitz, B.A.; Mukherjee, P .K. Molecular dialogues betweenTrichoderma and roots: Role of the fungal secretome. Fungal Biol. Rev. 2018 ,32, 62–85. [CrossRef]Metabolites 2022 ,12, 1100 47 of 47454. Brotman, Y.; Landau, U.; Cuadros-Inostroza, Á.; Takayuki, T.; Fernie, A.R.; Chet, I.; Viterbo, A.; Willmitzer, L. Trichoderma -plantroot colonization: Escaping early plant defense responses and activation of the antioxidant machinery for saline stress tolerance.PLoS Pathog. 2013 ,9, e1003221. [CrossRef]455. Engelberth, J.; Koch, T.; Schüler, G.; Bachmann, N.; Rechtenbach, J.; Boland, W. Ion channel-forming alamethicin is a potentelicitor of volatile biosynthesis and tendril coiling. Cross talk between jasmonate and salicylate signaling in lima bean. PlantPhysiol. 2001 ,125, 369–377. [CrossRef]456. Rotblat, B.; Enshell-Seijffers, D.; Gershoni, J.M.; Schuster, S.; Avni, A. Identiﬁcation of an essential component of the elicitationactive site of the EIX protein elicitor. Plant J. 2002 ,32, 1049–1055. [CrossRef]457. Martinez, C.; Blanc, F.; le Claire, E.; Besnard, O.; Nicole, M.; Baccou, J.-C. Salicylic acid and ethylene pathways are differentiallyactivated in melon cotyledons by active or heat-denatured cellulase from Trichoderma longibrachiatum .Plant Physiol. 2001 ,127,334–344. [CrossRef]458. Morán-Diez, E.; Hermosa, R.; Ambrosino, P .; Cardoza, R.E.; Guti érrez, S.; Lorito, M.; Monte, E. The ThPG1 endopolygalacturonaseis required for the Trichoderma harzianum –plant beneﬁcial interaction. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2009 ,22, 1021–1031. [CrossRef]459. Hermosa, R.; Viterbo, A.; Chet, I.; Monte, E. Plant-beneﬁcial effects of Trichoderma and of its genes. Microbiology 2012 ,158, 17–25.[CrossRef] [PubMed]460. Alonso-Ram írez, A.; Poveda, J.; Mart ín, I.; Hermosa, R.; Monte, E.; Nicol ás, C. Salicylic acid prevents Trichoderma harzianum fromentering the vascular system of roots. Mol. Plant Pathol. 2014 ,15, 823–831. [CrossRef] [PubMed]461. Ruocco, M.; Lanzuise, S.; Vinale, F.; Marra, R.; Turr à, D.; Woo, S.L.; Lorito, M. Identiﬁcation of a new biocontrol gene inTrichoderma atroviride : The role of an ABC transporter membrane pump in the interaction with different plant-pathogenic fungi.Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 2009 ,22, 291–301. [CrossRef] [PubMed]462. Masunaka, A.; Hyakumachi, M.; Takenaka, S. Plant growth-promoting fungus, Trichoderma koningi suppresses isoﬂavonoidphytoalexin vestitol production for colonization on/in the roots of Lotus japonicus .Microbes Environ. 2011 ,26, 128–134. [CrossRef][PubMed]463. Wu, Y.; Li, J.; Yang, H.; Shin, H.-J. Fungal and mushroom hydrophobins: A review. J. Mushroom 2017 ,15, 1–7. [CrossRef]464. D ˛ abrowska, G.B.; Garstecka, Z.; Olewnik-Kruszkowska, E.; Szczepa ´ nska, G.; Ostrowski, M.; Mierek-Adamska, A. Comparativestudy of structural changes of polylactide and poly(ethylene terephthalate) in the presence of Trichoderma viride .Int. J. Mol. Sci.2021 ,22, 3491. [CrossRef]465. Viterbo, A.; Harel, M.; Chet, I. Isolation of two aspartyl proteases from Trichoderma asperellum expressed during colonization ofcucumber roots. FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 2004 ,238, 151–158.466. Saloheimo, M.; Paloheimo, M.; Hakola, S.; Pere, J.; Swanson, B.; Nyyssönen, E.; Bhatia, A.; Ward, M.; Penttilä, M. Swollenin, aTrichoderma reesei protein with sequence similarity to the plant expansins, exhibits disruption activity on cellulosic materials. Eur.J. Biochem. 2002 ,269, 4202–4211. [CrossRef]467. Sánchez-Cruz, R.; Mehta, R.; Atrizt án-Hern ández, K.; Mart ínez-Villamil, O.; del Rayo S ánchez-Carbente, M.; S ánchez-Reyes, A.;Lira-Ruan, V .; Gonz ález-Ch ávez, C.A.; Tabche-Barrera, M.L.; B árcenas-Rodr íguez, R.C.; et al. Effects on Capsicum annuum plantscolonized with Trichoderma atroviride P . Karst strains genetically modiﬁed in taswo1 , a gene coding for a protein with expansin-likeactivity. Plants 2021 ,10, 1919. [CrossRef]468. Macías-Rodr íguez, L.; Guzm án-Gómez, A.; Garc ía-Juárez, P .; Contreras-Cornejo, H.A. Trichoderma atroviride promotes tomatodevelopment and alters the root exudation of carbohydrates, which stimulates fungal growth and the biocontrol of the phy-topathogen Phytophthora cinnamomi in a tripartite interaction system. FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 2018 ,94, ﬁy137. [CrossRef]