JIPBJournal of  IntegrativePlant BiologyInvited Expert Reviewhttps://doi.org/10.1111/jipb.13226The root microbiome: Community assembly and itscontributions to plant ﬁtnessFABo Bai1,2, Weidong Liu1,3,4, Xingyu Qiu1,5, Jie Zhang6, Jingying Zhang1,3,4*and Yang Bai1,3,4*1. State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Innovation Academy for Seed Design,Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China2. Institute of Crop Germplasm Resources, Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Crop Genetic Improvement, Ecology andPhysiology, Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Ji'nan 250100, China3. CAS Center for Excellence in Biotic Interactions, College of Advanced Agricultural Sciences, University of Chinese Academy ofSciences, Beijing 100049, China4. CAS ‐JIC Centre of Excellence for Plant and Microbial Science, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy ofSciences, Beijing 100101, China5. Center for life science, Yunnan University, Yunnan 650091, China6. State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China*Correspondences: Yang Bai (ybai@genetics.ac.cn , Dr. Bai is fully responsible for the distributions of all materials associated with thisarticle); Jingying Zhang ( jyzhang@genetics.ac.cn )BoBai Yang BaiABSTRACTThe root microbiome refers to the community ofmicrobes living in association with a plant'sroots, and includes mutualists, pathogens, andcommensals. Here we focus on recent advancesin the study of root commensal community whichis the major research object of microbiome ‐related researches. With the rapid developmentof new technologies, plant –commensal inter -actions can be explored with unprecedentedbreadth and depth. Both the soil environment andthe host plant drive commensal community as -sembly. The bulk soil is the seed bank of potentialcommensals, and plants use root exudates andimmune responses to build healthy microbialcommunities from the available microbes. Theplant microbiome extends the functional systemof plants by participating in a variety of proc -esses, including nutrient absorption, growthpromotion, and resistance to biotic and abioticstresses. Plants and their microbiomes haveevolved adaptation strategies over time. How -ever, there is still a huge gap in our under -standing of the regulat ory mechanisms of plant –commensal interactions. In this review, we sum -marize recent research on the assembly of rootmicrobial communities and the effects of thesecommunities on plant growth and development,and look at the prospects for promoting sus -tainable agricultural development through thestudy of the root microbiome.Keywords: commensal, microbiome assembly, plant ﬁtness,plant ‐microbe interaction, root microbiomeBai, B., Liu, W., Qiu, X., Zhang, J., Zhang, J., and Bai, Y.(2022). The root microbiome: Community assembly and its con -tributions to plant ﬁtness. J. Integr. Plant Biol. 64:230 –243.INTRODUCTIONMicrobes colonizing the plant root, the root microbiome,are categorized as mutualists, pathogens, or commen -sals, depending on the character of their interactions with theplant ( Brader et al., 2017;Thoms et al., 2021 ). However, thereis some confusion about these terms, and it is necessary toclarify their differences. Mutualists are microbes thatestablish speci ﬁc mutualistic structures with plants, such asarbuscular mycorrhizae, which assist in phosphate absorp -tion (Toro et al., 1997 ;Ezawa and Saito, 2018 ), and rhizobia,which widely colonize legumes to form nitrogen ‐ﬁxing rootnodules ( Masson ‐Boivin and Sachs, 2018 ;Lindstrom andMousavi, 2020 ). Mutualists obtain essential carbon sourcesfrom the plants, which in turn can absorb mineral nutrientssuch as nitrogen and phosphorus via the mutualists.© 2022 Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicensePathogens are microbes that lead to speci ﬁc diseases aftercolonization such as Pseudomonas syringae (Nomura et al.,2005 ;Xin et al., 2018 ). Commensals constitute the majority ofplant ‐associated microbes and include bacteria, fungi,archaea, viruses, and protozoa; they are loosely dependenton hosts but can be recruited in certain situations to in ﬂuencehosts growth and development through neutral, bene ﬁcial orharmful interactions (Hooper and Gordon, 2001 ). However,with in ‐depth study, speci ﬁc commensals may prove to bemutualists or pathogens. Because of the importance anddiversity of the commensals, a major focus of root micro -biome research has been to dissect their taxonomic structureand biological functions using multiomics techniques(Marchesi and Ravel, 2015 ), and to illuminate the interactionsamong environments, microbes, and hosts. Althoughresearch approaches, such as sequencing, also acquireinformation about mutualists and pathogens, commensalsare the major interests of microbiome research.The interactions between plants and commensals arecomplicated. Plants regulate root microbiota mainly throughroot exudates and the plant immune system, while root mi -crobiota expands the habitable range and metabolic capacityof plants, and participate in diverse processes, such as plantdevelopment, nutrient absorption, and stress responses(Berendsen et al., 2012 ;Huang et al., 2014 ;Hiruma et al.,2016 ;Kwak et al., 2018 ;Zhang et al., 2019 ). Thus, a plant'sphenotype is the co ‐product of the plant's genotype and itsmicrobiome ( Ravanbakhsh et al., 2019 ). Therefore, illumi -nating the molecular mechanisms of interactions betweenhosts and their microbiota is of great signi ﬁcance for usingthe microbial community to develop sustainable agriculture.Recently, the development of high ‐throughput sequencingand large ‐scale microbial isolation and identi ﬁcation havegreatly promoted our understanding of the assembly, func -tion, and interactions of the plant microbiome (Callahan et al.,2016 ;Knight et al., 2018 ).Here, we summarize recent research advances on the rootmicrobiome. Although fungi, viruses, and protozoa are im -portant constituents of the root microbiota, we focus on thebacterial microbiome, including its assembly mechanismsand its functions in plant growth and development. Finally,we look ahead to promoting sustainable agricultural devel -opment by utilizing the root microbiome.ROOT MICROBIOTA COMMUNITYSTRUCTURE AND ASSEMBLYPATTERNSRoot ‐resident microbes include rhizosphere microbiota andendosphere microbiota, which colonize the regionsurrounding the roots and the internal tissues of the plant,respectively. The emerging information about root microbialcommunities of different plant species show that thecomposition of rhizosphere microbiota is similar to that ofbulk soil microbiota. Moreover, the root microbial communitymainly consists of species in the phyla Proteobacteria, Acti -nobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes (Bodenhausenet al., 2013 ;Bulgarelli et al., 2013 ,2015 ;Guttman et al.,2014 ;Schlaeppi et al., 2014 ). However, the relative abun -dance of phyla differs among different plant species. Forinstance, the legume Trifolium pratense hosts a distinct rootmicrobial community. The dominant phylum Proteobacteriaaccounts for 90.7% of the root microbiota and an operationaltaxonomic unit (OTU) identi ﬁed as a Rhizobium is dominantamong the Proteobacteria, accounting for 70% of the rootmicrobiota (Hartman et al., 2017 ). This is consistent with thefact that T. pratense establishes a mutualistic relationshipwith rhizobia to ﬁx nitrogen ( Carlsson and Huss ‐Danell,2003 ;Dhamala et al., 2017 ). Many factors affect the com -position of the microbial community, including, in order of themagnitude of their effects, soil type, plant developmentstage, and plant genotype (Peiffer et al., 2013 ;Shakya et al.,2013 ;Schreiter et al., 2014 ;Bakker et al., 2015 ;Edwardset al., 2015 ;Zarraonaindia et al., 2015 ;Zhang et al.,2018 ;Xiong et al., 2021a ). The regulation of the microbialcommunity by soil type and plant genotype will be describedin detail in the following sections. The microbial communitiesin different compartments change during vegetative growthand gradually stabilize during reproductive growth in differentplants (Chaparro et al., 2014 ;Edwards et al., 2018 ;Zhanget al., 2018 ). There are signi ﬁcant differences in the amount oforganic carbon released from roots during different stages ofplant development, which has a stronger correlation withthe bacterial community than the fungal community(Chen et al., 2019 ).Studies demonstrate that microbiota diversity graduallydecreases from the rhizosphere to the endosphere ( Edwardset al., 2015 ). Bulgarelli et al. ( 2013 ) developed a two ‐stepselection model based on previous studies. First, rhizode -position drives microbes from the bulk soil to the rhizosphereand forms the rhizosphere microbiota. Second, rhizospheremicrobes enter the endosphere under the regulation of thehost genotype and the endosphere microbiota is established(Bulgarelli et al., 2013 ). Subsequently, Edwards et al. ( 2015 )further divided the root microbiota among three compart -ments: rhizosphere, rhizoplane, and endosphere. At the sametime, they emphasized a critical gating role for the rhizoplaneand suggested that three or more steps are needed formicrobes to move from the bulk soil to the endosphere.MAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THEROOT MICROBIOTAThe rhizosphere, rhizoplane (root surface), and endosphererepresent different niches that can be occupied by rootmicrobes. During colonization of the root, environment,plant –microbe interactions, and microbe –microbe inter -actions together shape the microbial communities formed inRoot microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 231 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensethe different niches by microbes from the bulk soil(Perez ‐Jaramillo et al., 2016 ;Adair and Douglas, 2017 ;Xionget al., 2021b )(Figure 1 ).Soil is a critical factor affecting the root microbiotaThe bulk soil microbiota —A“seed bank ”of plant rootmicrobesSoil is one of the most complex microbial ecosystems onearth ( Gans et al., 2005 ). Many factors, such as climate,moisture availability, pore size, soil organic matter content,the total content of carbon and nitrogen, carbon –nitrogenratio, and pH, make signi ﬁcant contributions to soil bacterialcommunity diversity (Tecon and Or, 2017 )(Figure 1 ). For in -stance, soil bacterial community diversity is signi ﬁcantlycorrelated with soil pH, being highest in neutral soil andlowest in acidic soil (Tecon and Or, 2017 ). The root microbialcommunity is mainly derived from the bulk soil microbes byhorizontal transfer, so bulk soil is regarded as the “seedbank”of the root microbial community ( Bulgarelli et al.,2012 ;Lundberg et al., 2012 ). In some ways, the root micro -bial community can also be considered as a subset of thebulk soil microbial community (Zarraonaindia et al., 2015 ).Therefore, the bulk soil microbial community serving as theinitial inoculum of the root is an important factor affecting theestablishment of the root microbial community ( Bulgarelliet al., 2012 ;Lundberg et al., 2012 ;Peiffer et al., 2013 ;Edwardset al., 2015 ). There are signi ﬁcant differences in plant microbialcommunities in soils with different physicochemical propertiesunder different climate conditions (Kang et al., 2019 ).Soil physicochemical properties also affect root microbiotastructure indirectly by affecting plantsThe soil physicochemical properties, such as nutrient avail -ability, also affect plant growth and development, andconsequently further affect the composition of the root mi -crobial community. Phosphorus is one of the most importantmacronutrients in plants. Although phosphorus is abundantin soil, phosphorus ions (Pi) easily form complexes with otherions, which are dif ﬁcult to absorb by plants (Schachtmanet al., 1998 ;Vance et al., 2003 ). Plants respond to phos -phorus restriction through a series of morphological, phys -iological, and metabolic changes, de ﬁned as the phosphatestarvation response (PSR). PHR1, a core transcription factorfor balancing PSR and plant immune responses, directlyregulates immunity ‐related genes and further inhibitsmicrobe ‐induced immune responses under phosphorusFigure 1. Factors affecting plant root microbial community structure and the subsequent effects on plant growthThe bulk soil microbial community is the seed bank for the plant root ‐associated microbiota. Soil physico ‐chemical properties, including soil pH, moisture,and soil composition affect the soil microbial community and consequently the root microbial community. Microbes are recruited from the bulk soil to therhizosphere by root exudates, which include primary metabolites mainly responsible for attraction and secondary metabolites mainly responsible f orscreening the recruited microbes. Host genotypes in ﬂuence the immune functions that control the entry of rhizosphere microbes into the endosphere.Microbe –microbe interactions also play roles at all stages of the process. The rhizosphere and endosphere microbes improve plant growth by increasingmineral nutrient availability and improving plant resistance to biotic and abiotic stress.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology232 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedeﬁciency. The PSR affects the structure of the root microbiota,resulting in an atypical microbial community. Furthermore, theinduction of genes involved in the PSR depends on thepresence of microbes (Castrillo et al., 2017 ;Motte andBeeckman, 2017 ). Similarly, the amounts of inorganic nitrogenand iron in the soil also affect root microbiota structurethrough a similar mechanism (Zhang et al., 2019 ;Harbortet al., 2020 ).The host regulates the root microbiotaRhizosphere effects, the immune system, nutrientmobilization, and responses to stress determined by thehost genotype regulate root microbial structure, which inturn in ﬂuences the growth and developmental processesof the host.Rhizosphere effects: root exudates drive microbiomeassemblyNearly 5% –20% of a plant's photosynthetically ﬁxed carbonis secreted by the roots into the rhizosphere ( Walker et al.,2003 ). Root exudates (e.g., sugars, amino acids, organicacids, fatty acids, and secondary metabolites) are importantforms of communication between plants and microbes, andattract microbes to the rhizosphere from the bulk soil (Baiset al., 2006 ;Badri and Vivanco, 2009 ;Bulgarelli et al.,2013 ;Baetz and Martinoia, 2014 ). The effects of root exu -dates on the microbiota are de ﬁned as rhizosphere effects(Bulgarelli et al., 2013 ;Sasse et al., 2018 ;Zhalnina et al.,2018 )(Figure 1 ). Using a combination of microbiome, com -parative genomic, and exometabolomic approaches, re -searchers observed that plant root exudates have speci ﬁcpatterns associated with root growth and plant development(Zhalnina et al., 2018 ). By comparing the genomes of en -riched and depleted rhizosphere bacteria and their ability tometabolize different root exudates during plant development,researchers further found that there is an interaction betweenmicrobial substrate uptake traits and plant exudation pat -terns. Rhizosphere bacteria have a preference for aromaticorganic acids secreted by plants (nicotinic, shikimic, cin -namic, salicylic, and indole ‐3‐acetic acids: IAAs) (Zhalninaet al., 2018 ). The interactions between microbial substrateuptake traits and plant exudation traits form the molecularmechanism by which plants can regulate microbial com -munities by modulating root exudates (Zhalnina et al., 2018 ).In terms of microbial adaptation to the root environment,rhizosphere ‐enriched genes were related to bacterial che -motaxis, bio ﬁlm formation, ﬂagella assembly, and bacterialmovement, suggesting that plants recruit microbes with rootexudates (Xu et al., 2018a ). Moreover, the fact that carbo -hydrate metabolism and amino acid metabolism ‐relatedfunctions were underrepresented in the rhizosphere coremicrobiome is consistent with the ability of these microbes toobtain simple carbon and nitrogen compounds from rootexudates (Xu et al., 2018a ).Root exudates are signi ﬁcantly affected by many factors,such as plant species, developmental stage, root physiology,environment, nutrition, soil type, stress type, and stressdegree ( Sasse et al., 2018 ). For instance, a circadian clockwith light as the main variable regulates metabolic functionin plants. Plant carbohydrate metabolism and organicmatter in the rhizosphere vary signi ﬁcantly during the dayand night. There are signi ﬁcant differences in the bacterialcommunity structure in the rhizosphere of wild ‐typeArabidopsis between light and dark conditions, and 13%of the rhizosphere community showed circadian rhythms(Staley et al., 2017 ). The Casparian strip (CS) in the endo -dermis, a physical barrier essential for controlling substanceexchange between the root and its environment, plays animportant role in regulating root exudates. Mutants with CSdefects show that abnormal suberin deposition in ﬂuencesthe release of root exudates, which in turn affects the re -cruitment of bene ﬁcial microbes and the ﬁnal microbialcommunity structure (Durr et al., 2021 ;Salas ‐Gonzálezet al., 2021 ).In addition to recruiting microbes by providing nutrients,roots also actively regulate rhizosphere microbial structureby secreting speci ﬁc chemicals ( Figure 1 ). For example,coumarin selectively inhibits some soil pathogens, whilerhizosphere bacteria that promote growth and activateinduced systemic resistance (ISR) have a high tolerance tocoumarin. Coumarin stimulates the redox reaction toproduce reactive oxygen species (ROS), which may be animportant mechanism for the bacteriostatic effects ofcoumarin (Voges et al., 2019 ). The Arabidopsis mutant f6 h1 ,which is de ﬁcient in coumarin biosynthesis, assembles adistinct microbiome, indicating that the coumarinbiosynthetic pathway is involved in shaping the rootmicrobiome. Bene ﬁcial bacteria improve the colonizationenvironment for themselves and supply immunity andgrowth bene ﬁts for the host after colonizing the root; thesebacteria induce coumarin synthesis (Stringlis et al., 2018 ).The root ‐speci ﬁc camalexin synthetic pathway helpsregulate microbe –microbe interactions in the rhizosphere,contributing to sulfatase activity and plant growth promotionby bene ﬁcial microbes such as Pseudomonas ssp. CH267(Koprivova et al., 2019 ). The benzoxazinoids (BXs) are aclass of defensive secondary metabolites released by cerealroots. 6 ‐methoxy ‐benzoxazolin ‐2‐one (MBOA), a BX break -down product, decreases plant growth, increases jasmonicacid (JA) signal transduction and plant defenses, anddecreases herbivore performance in the next generation byregulating root ‐associated fungal and bacterial communities(Hu et al., 2018 ). Triterpenes are plant ‐speci ﬁc metabolites,and Arabidopsis mutants with defects in triterpene biosyn -thesis form distinct root microbial communities comparedwith the wild type. Puri ﬁed triterpenoids and representativetriterpenoid mixtures selectively modulate the growth of 19taxonomically diverse bacterial strains isolated from the rootmicrobiota (Huang et al., 2019a ). In short, plant roots recruitmicrobes from bulk soil and drive the assembly of microbialcommunities by supplying nutrients and releasing speci ﬁcchemicals.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 233 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseThe plant immune system distinguishes “enemies ”and“friends ”Plants have a sophisticated immune system that allows themto exclude harmful microbes while permitting commensalsand mutualists to colonize their roots (Teixeira et al., 2019 )(Figure 1 ). This process depends on recognition of highlyconserved microbe ‐associated molecular patterns (MAMPs)and activation of MAMP ‐triggered immunity (MTI), whichforms a primary defense against microbial colonization(Chisholm et al., 2006 ;Jones and Dangl, 2006 ). However,normal plant growth and development may be compromisedduring the immune process, a situation de ﬁned as “growth ‐defense tradeoffs ”(Couto and Zipfel, 2016 ). So, how dobene ﬁcial microbes evade the plant immune system? Or,how do plants discriminate between harmful and bene ﬁcialmicrobes?To establish interactions with plants, some microbesevade or suppress host immunity through various mecha -nisms ( Yu et al., 2019b ). For instance, researchers comparingthe genomes of plant ‐associated versus non ‐plant ‐associated bacteria identi ﬁed 64 plant ‐resembling plant ‐associated and root ‐associated domains (PREPARADOs)encoded by 11 916 genes in plant ‐associated bacteria ( Levyet al., 2017 ). Moreover, some of these PREPARADOs arespeculated to mimic as decoys to evade the host immunesystem, giving the microbes access to plant tissues (Trivediet al., 2020 ). The biosynthesis and signaling pathways of theplant defense hormone salicylic acid (SA) are critical forshaping and maintaining a normal root microbiota throughregulating colonization by certain bacterial families (Lebeiset al., 2015 ). Some root microbes, such as Pseudomonascapeferrum WCS358, lower their extracellular pH and inhibitroot immunity by producing gluconic acid and its derivative2‐keto gluconic acid (Yu et al., 2019a ). Other microbesovercome the plant immune system with their own secre -tions, such as Bacillus velezensis FZB42 ( B. velezensis ), aprobiotic bacterium that secretes auxin. Bacterial auxin isessential for root colonization by B. velezensis and for itssurvival and replication by antagonizing ROS produced aspart of the receptor EFR ‐triggered immune response.Meanwhile, ROS induces the synthesis of bacterial auxin(Tzipilevich et al., 2021 ).Flg22, an N ‐terminal epitope of bacterial ﬂagellin, is atypical MAMP triggering plant immune responses ( Felix et al.,1999 ;Chinchilla et al., 2006 ). Colaianni et al. ( 2021 ) inves -tigated the variability of ﬂg22 peptides in commensals, anddemonstrated that most commensal ﬂg22 peptide variantsfailed to activate the pattern recognition receptor (PRR) FLS2(64%) and did not signi ﬁcantly inhibit host growth (80%).Some ﬂg22 peptide variants altered MTI signaling output byinterfering with co ‐receptor enlistment and by another, un -identi ﬁed mechanism that triggered the typical ROS re -sponse, resulting in modulation of plant immunity. Therefore,the commensal community has abundant ﬂg22 diversity re -sulting in speci ﬁc defense activation, pervasive evasion, anddifferential immune signal regulation, which may contribute tocommunity diversity and microbial homeostasis (Colaianniet al., 2021 ). In plants, FLS2 appears to be particularlyvulnerable to evolutionary selection pressures. More than100 amino acid changes in FLS2 have been identi ﬁed usinggenome mining in >1,000 Arabidopsis accessions, indicatingthat FLS2 sequence variants seem to have evolved an abilityto detect various ﬂg22 variants to ensure proper immuneactivation (Parys et al., 2021 ;Stringlis and Pieterse, 2021 ).The diversi ﬁed variants of ﬂg22 evade the recognitionof FLS2, while receptor FLS2 recognizes more ﬂg22 variantsthrough variation in amino acid, which shows theco‐evolution between plants and microbes.A recent study shows that the Arabidopsis root com -mensal community is involved in MTI regulation. Researchersidenti ﬁed a group of robust, taxonomically diverse strainsthat inhibited MTI. Both single strains and synthetic com -munities (SynComs) selectively regulated key immunogenes,including receptors, transcription factors, and biochemicalexecutors, and increased the ability of other commensalbacteria to colonize roots (Teixeira et al., 2021 ). Similarly,based on their MTI ‐induced root growth inhibition (RGI)phenotypes, researchers divided SynComs into two types:those that induced RGI and those that did not, whichmodulated host sensitivity to root bacteria by inducing orinhibiting MTI responses, respectively. MTI activation alteredthe structures of RGI ‐inducing SynComs, which were atte -nuated in the presence of RGI ‐suppressing strains. Fur -thermore, non ‐RGI strains also altered the expression of 174core host genes, including a subset of speci ﬁcally down ‐regulated genes related to plant immunity (Ma et al., 2021 ).These results are consistent with those of Teixeira et al.(2021 ). This evolved mechanism balances the ﬁght againstpathogens by the immune system with growth ‐defensetradeoffs, resulting in host ‐commensal homeostasis(Ma et al., 2021 ).Commensals prevent growth inhibition by suppressingimmunity, but plants also actively ignore colonization byharmless bacteria. In the differentiated outer cell layers ofArabidopsis roots, the expression of PRRs is low and re -sponsiveness to MAMPs is lost, so the immune response isnot activated in the presence of bene ﬁcial or harmless mi -crobes. However, neighboring cells show high expression ofPRRs and rapid response to MAMPs if they are damaged,which is known as the damage ‐gate. The damage ‐gate pre -cisely activates immunity at the infection site depending onplant cell damage signaling triggered by pathogens (Zhouet al., 2020 ). To sum up, the plant immune system activelyoverlooks colonization by bene ﬁcial microbes, and thesemicrobes evade or suppress host immunity, which contributesto the interactions between hosts and commensals.Other host genes regulating the assembly of root microbiomeOther genetic mechanisms also regulate microbial com -munity assembly of roots. Bergelson et al. ( 2019 ) analyzedthe root microbiomes of 196 Arabidopsis accessions andfound that the host genotype seemed to have a strongerRoot microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology234 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseeffect on fungi than on bacteria. Moreover, they identi ﬁedassociations between the abundance of individual strainsand plant genotypes using genome ‐wide associationstudies, and located some important quantitative trait loci(QTL) related to species richness and community structure.These QTL are involved in cell ‐wall integrity, plant immunity,and root and root hair development (Bergelson et al., 2019 ).By reanalyzing the same dataset, He et al. ( 2021 )i d e n t i ﬁedhub fungi and bacteria that are critical for assembling themicrobial community. Likewise, they identi ﬁed 91 hub hostQTL involved in plant growth and development, root growth,pathogen resistance, and abiotic stress resistance (He et al.,2021 ). A recent study suggests that FERONIA (FER), a cellmembrane receptor protein kinase, is involved in regulatingmicrobiota structure. Pseudomonas ﬂuorescens wasenriched in the rhizosphere of the Arabidopsis mutantfer‐8without microbial dysbiosis at the phylum level.FER negatively regulates colonization by bene ﬁcialP.ﬂuo-rescens by regulating root ROS levels (Song et al., 2021 ).There is host preference in microbial community colo -nization ( Wippel et al., 2021 ).Lotus japonicus and Arabi -dopsis root microbiota have 16 families in common, and aSynCom was built using 32 strains from the 16 sharedfamilies (16 strains each for Lotus and Arabidopsis ). Afterboth hosts were inoculated with the SynCom, the relativeabundance of the strains originally isolated from Arabi -dopsis was higher on Arabidopsis root, while the strainsoriginally from lotus were more abundant on lotus root.Based on these data combined with plant transcriptomicanalysis, the host commensal preferences were mainlydetermined by plant immunomodulatory factors, MAMPreceptor kinase, and ethylene response factors (Wippelet al., 2021 ).Microbial colonization alters plant gene expression, aneffect de ﬁned as the general non ‐self response (GNSR)(Maier et al., 2021 ). One study showed that when bacterialcolonization occurred, 24 core GNSR genes were up ‐regulated to modulate plant metabolism, especially oftryptophan ‐derived secondary metabolites involved in plantdefense. Using mutants, they further demonstrated thatsome GNSR genes make vital contributions to pathogenresistance (Maier et al., 2021 ). Plant epigenetic regulationmay affect root microbial structure. For instance, mutantdcl234 ,a n Arabidopsis triple mutant with defects in theRNA ‐directed DNA methylation (RdDM) pathway, had a re -duced abundance of Aeromonadaceae and Pseudomona -daceae and an increased abundance of other families in theroot microbial community. However, this regulation was in -dependent of RdDM, and may have been caused by a seriesof modulations of cell ‐wall components, root exudates, andplant defenses (Kaushal et al., 2021 ). Comparing the rootmicrobiome of three rice mutants defective in histonemethylation, researchers found that histone methylationmay have modulated the microbiome structure andcomposition by affecting the abundance of hub species(Lv et al., 2021 ).Microbe –microbe interactions during microbialcommunity assemblyMicrobe –microbe interactions also are involved in root mi -crobial community assembly ( Figure 1 ). Niu et al. ( 2017 )constructed a highly simpli ﬁed maize SynCom from sevenrepresentative bacterial strains to test how microbial inter -actions affect community assembly. Experiments in whichsingle strains were dropped out of the SynCom showed thatelimination of Enterobacter cloacae but none of the otherstrains caused the SynCom to collapse, indicating thatE. cloacae is a key member during community assembly. Byanalyzing bacteria, fungi, and oomycetes from differentcompartments in different Arabidopsis accessions, re -searchers built a network of microbial interkingdominteractions and identi ﬁed two hub microbes that served asmediators between abiotic factors, host factors, and colo -nization by other microbes (Agler et al., 2016 ). The microbialcommunity structure changed signi ﬁcantly after one or morestrains were dropped from this SynCom. However, once acommunity was established, the structure was not sig -niﬁcantly altered when the drop ‐out strains were sub -sequently added back, indicating that their priority effectsoccurred during bacterial colonization (Carlstrom et al.,2019 ). The vascular wilt pathogen Verticillium dahlia co‐optsVdAMP3, an effector protein with antibacterial properties, tomanipulate host microbiota to facilitate invasion (Snelderset al., 2021 ). Microbe ‐microbe interactions can improve plantresistance to biotic stress. For example, in Arabidopsis , theroot bacterial community reshaped the fungal and oomycetalcommunity structure to protect plants from them. The bio -control ability of the bacterial root microbiota is a redundanttrait that enhances plant survival (Durán et al., 2018 ).THE EFFECTS OF ROOTMICROBIOTA ON PLANTDEVELOPMENTThe root microbiota contributes to plant nutrient absorptionand resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses ( Mueller andSachs, 2015 ;Vandenkoornhuyse et al., 2015 ;Compant et al.,2019 ;Liu et al., 2020 ;Choi et al., 2021 ;Zhang et al., 2021a ).Importantly, the function of the microbial community isclosely associated with the regulation of the microbialcommunity by the host (Figure 1 ). Under a particular stresscondition, the host could form a speci ﬁc root ‐related micro -bial community, and this microbiota may improve the resist -ance of plants to corresponding stress.Root microbiota facilitates the uptake of mineralelements by plantsThe root microbiota helps plants absorb mineral elementssuch as iron and nitrogen ( Zhang et al., 2019 ;Harbort et al.,2020 ;Yu et al., 2021 ). Iron is an essential mineral nutrient forplants and acts as a catalyst in many biological processes,including photosynthesis and respiration (Balk andRoot microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 235 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseSchaedler, 2014 ;Krohling et al., 2016 ). Iron deprivationcauses plant chlorosis and affects growth and development(Morrissey and Guerinot, 2009 ). The root microbiota alle -viates plant iron starvation, relying on changes in plant cou -marin secretion and iron import. Both coumarin secretion andthe root microbial community have profound effects on theplant's transcriptional response to iron de ﬁciency. Moreover,the interactions between coumarins and commensals im -prove plant performance by enhancing iron absorption andregulating a set of defense ‐related genes (Harbort et al.,2020 ). Despite studies in rice showing that the nitrogen ‐utilizing ef ﬁciency of indica varieties is better than that ofjaponica varieties, the involvement of microbiome regulationhas only recently been revealed (Koutroubas and Ntanos,2003 ;Rakotoson et al., 2017 ;Zhang et al., 2019 ). Indica va -rieties recruited more bacteria with nitrogen metabolismfunctions than did japonica varieties, and a rice variety withNRT1.1B , a rice nitrate transporter and sensor gene, re -cruited bacteria with more ammoni ﬁcation activity than thoserecruited by the corresponding nbt1.1b mutant. When ricewas grown on inorganic nitrogen, a SynCom made fromindica ‐enriched bacteria promoted growth more than aSynCom made from japonica ‐enriched bacteria (Zhang et al.,2019 ). Besides enriching more bacteria with ammoniatingactive, ﬂavones derived from maize root recruited more rhi -zosphere Oxalobacteraceae, which in turn promote nitrogenutilization and maize lateral growth (Yu et al., 2021 ). From abroader perspective, the root endodermis controls mineralabsorption and exudate ef ﬂux, which is crucial for mineralbalance in plants. The root microbiota affects mineral nutrientbalance and abiotic stress tolerance by regulating thedevelopment of diffusion barriers in the endodermis, espe -cially suberin deposition. This process depends on the in -hibition of abscisic acid signal transduction by microbes(Salas ‐González et al., 2021 ). Therefore, microbes can notonly directly promote the absorption of mineral elements inplants, but also indirectly help maintain the balance of min -eral nutrition by regulating the establishment of the diffusionbarrier in the root endodermis.Root microbiota improves plant resistance to diseaseRoot commensals help plants resist pathogen invasionthrough various mechanisms, including niche competition,antibiotic secretion, and ISR induction (Compant et al.,2005 ;Lugtenberg and Kamilova, 2009 ;Beneduzi et al.,2012 ;Teixeira et al., 2019 ). A classic example is the existenceof suppressive soils, which maintain the healthy growth ofplants even in the presence of pathogens. Importantly, thisability is due partly to plant root microbial community (Welleret al., 2002 ). Some microbes may help directly by producingantibacterial substances that suppress pathogens or in -directly by inducing ISR in plants. Pseudomonas syringaepathovar tomato (Pst) is a pathogen that infects leaves; in -fected plants increase malic acid secretion from their rootsand recruit Bacillus subtilis , resulting in a stronger immuneresponse to Pst(Rudrappa et al., 2008 ). When Arabidopsisleaves are infected with the downy mildew pathogenHyaloperonospora arabidopsidis , three bene ﬁcial microbes,including Xanthomonas sp., Stenotrophomonas sp., andMicrobacterium sp., are recruited in the rhizosphere to im -prove systemic resistance and enhance the resistance of thenext generation of plants growing in the same soil (Berendsenet al., 2018 ). Similarly, after ﬁve successive generations ofPst‐infected Arabidopsis grown in the same soil, the sixthgeneration showed increased JA level and disease resist -ance. This increased resistance may be partly due tochanges in root exudation pro ﬁles, such that bene ﬁcial mi -crobes are recruited and improve the disease resistance ofthe aboveground part of the plant (Yuan et al., 2018 ).Therefore, plants infected by pathogens are able to “cry forhelp”to the root microbiota and selectively enrich bene ﬁcialmicrobes. This phenomenon, in which plants bene ﬁt fromprevious generations grown in the same soil, is called thesoil‐borne legacy (Raaijmakers and Mazzola, 2016 ;Bakkeret al., 2018 ). Given the above, plant resistance to pathogensis at least part by recruiting bene ﬁcial microbes from the soil.Root microbiota enhances plant performance underabiotic stressThe root microbiota also helps plants resist abiotic stress.The improved plant resistance to abiotic stress is providedeither directly by speci ﬁc members of the root microbialcommunity or indirectly through microbe –microbe inter -actions (Hartman and Tringe, 2019 ;Liu et al., 2020 ). Droughtis an increasingly severe problem in agriculture. Interestingly,root microbiome improves the adaptation of hosts to droughtstress (Xu and Coleman ‐Derr, 2019 ). A recent study showedthat the rice root microbiome structure changed dramaticallyunder short ‐term drought, but largely recovered to its pre ‐stress structure after rewatering. Nonetheless, prolongeddrought caused severe and lasting effects on the endospherecommunity, which were not fully reversed after rewatering.After prolonged drought, Actinobacteria were enriched sig -niﬁcantly and accounted for more than 80% of the post ‐drought bacterial community. Furthermore, Streptomyces sp.SLBN ‐177, isolated from most abundant OTU in the rootmicrobiota, was able to promote root growth under droughtconditions (Santos ‐Medellín et al., 2021 ). Similarly, the rootmicrobiome changed signi ﬁcantly in sorghum under droughtconditions, with Actinobacteria being moderately enrichedand signi ﬁcantly promoting root growth ( Xu et al., 2018b ).Genome ‐resolved metagenomics and comparative genomicsshowed that the copy number of genes involved in irontransport and metabolism increased signi ﬁcantly in the Acti -nobacteria genomes. Moreover, Streptomyces promotedplant growth under drought conditions but this effect wasreversed in the presence of exogenous iron, suggesting thatiron metabolism plays an important role in drought ‐inducedrhizosphere microbiome dynamics (Xu et al., 2021 ). Somebacteria isolated from grapevine promoted leaf biomass,shoot biomass and length, and photosynthetic activity underdrought conditions in the greenhouse and also promoted rootRoot microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology236 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensebiomass under ﬁeld conditions ( Rolli et al., 2015 ). Theseﬁndings suggest that some commensals enhance plant re -sistance to drought.Soil salinization is a global threat to agriculture. Due to theimproper management of fertilizers and water, the area of saline ‐alkali soil is increasing. Using the microbial community to amel -iorate salt stress is a promising me thod. Inoculation of asparaguswith Hypoxylon spp. (Sj18), a fungus isolated from pecan roots,altered its endophytic community, such that the low abundance,salt‐tolerant bacterial genus Halomonas became dominant.Meanwhile, inoculation with Sj18 improves salt tolerance inArabidopsis (Huang et al., 2019b ). Salt ‐induced root microbesalleviate salt stress in salt ‐sensitive and salt ‐insensitive Curcur -bitaceae species, decreasing the Na+concentration in plantsand promoting nutrient absorption. In situ microbial communityisolated from salt ‐stressed host is more effective in alleviatinghost salt stress than that isolated from non ‐host plants. Mean -while, ameliorating salt stress relies on species diversity, in -dicating that the bene ﬁcial regulatory mechanisms may involvesynergies among different microbe species ( Li et al., 2021 ).Commensals also help regulate plant growth under lowlight. Perception of light in the leaves produces signals thatregulate the root microbial community, which in turn regu -lates plant growth and development under the correspondinglight conditions. Under low photosynthetically active radia -tion, plants favor growth at the expense of weaker defensesthrough a microbiota ‐root ‐shoot circuit. The growth ‐defensetrade ‐off under low light is regulated by the root microbialcommunity and the host transcription factor MYC2 (Houet al., 2021 ). The above evidence suggests that root micro -biota contributes to abiotic stress resistance and helps plantssurvive in harsh environments.Root microbiota contributes to regulation of plantgrowth and developmentMicrobes directly regulate plant growth and development inaddition to performing speci ﬁc functions for correspondingphysiological processes. Microbial modi ﬁcations of ethylenelevels in plants alter plant phenotypes, depending on growth ‐defense tradeoffs. Pseudomonas putida UW4 promotes plantgrowth by reducing ethylene levels, but at the cost of hy -persensitivity to stress ( Ravanbakhsh et al., 2019 ). Finkelet al. ( 2020 ) found that a single bacterial genus ( Variovorax )reversed the severe inhibition of root growth caused by otherbacterial strains and a SynCom composed of them. Vari-ovorax species regulated the effects of the inhibitory SynComon root growth by manipulating IAA levels. The researchersalso identi ﬁed a genomic hotspot 33, containing atypical IAAdegradation operons, which is conserved in all availableVariovorax genomes and is necessary and suf ﬁcient for re -versal of RGI. Speci ﬁc soil microbes can alter ﬂowering timeinArabidopsis (Wagner et al., 2014 ;Panke ‐Buisse et al.,2015 ). Nitri ﬁcation by rhizosphere microbes increased andprolonged nitrogen bioavailability, thereby promoting vege -tative growth and delaying ﬂowering. Moreover, rhizosphereArthrobacter species also converted tryptophan in rootexudates to IAA to delay ﬂowering ( Lu et al., 2018 ). Surpris -ingly, the microbial community mediates heterosis in maize.Hybrid maize lines performed only as well as their inbredparental lines under sterile conditions, but showed heterosisof root biomass when inoculated with a highly simpli ﬁedSynCom. Importantly, these results were replicated in naturalsoils, indicating that the microbial community robustly me -diates plant heterosis throughout the environment (Wagneret al., 2021 ). Although the speci ﬁc molecular mechanisms ofmicrobial regulation of plant growth and development are stillunclear, there is no doubt that the microbial community isinvolved in plant growth and development. As more evidenceemerges, the purposeful use of microbes will be achieved.ADVANCES IN TECHNIQUESBOOST OUR UNDERSTANDING OFTHE MICROBIOMEResearch into the root microbiome mainly consists of culture ‐dependent, culture ‐independent, and reductionist SynComapproaches ( Figure 2 ). Initial studies relied on isolating andpurifying microbes and identi ﬁed the cultured species and theirabundances through colony morphology and number. How -ever, it is dif ﬁcult to reproduce natural conditions suitable for thegrowth of many microbes under laboratory conditions and alarge proportion of microbes are not culturable, resulting in alack of information about the true microbial community(Hill et al., 2000 ). Nonetheless, culture ‐dependent approachesremain important for microbiome research, such as thereductionist SynCom approach relying on high ‐throughputcultivation and identi ﬁcation ( Bai et al., 2015 ;Zhang et al.,2021b ). Subsequently, culture ‐independent approaches (e.g.,DNA ﬁngerprinting, phospholipid fatty acid analysis) were de -veloped to study the diversity and composition of the entirecommunity; however, these techniques have lower throughputand provide less information c ompared with emerging high ‐throughput sequencing and meta ‐omics approaches (Bossioand Scow, 1998 ;Jo et al., 2020 ). By using high ‐throughputsequencing approaches, researchers have gained an under -standing of the composition of microbial communities withunprecedented breadth and precision (Bulgarelli et al.,2012 ;Lundberg et al., 2012 ;Liu et al., 2019 ,2021 ). In addition,emerging metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, and meta -proteomics technologies allow us to systematically understandthe function of microbiomes (Caporaso et al., 2010 ;Liuet al., 2021 ).Census approach (e.g., amplicons and metagenomic sta -tistics) provides a holistic understanding of plant microbialcommunities, which is crucial for reviewing the fact of naturalmicrobiomes, while the reductionist SynCom approach connectstheﬁelds of microbial ecology an d plant molecular biology(I n c e o g l ue ta l . ,2 0 1 1 ;Bulgarelli et al., 2012 ,2015 ;Knief et al.,2012 ;Lundberg et al., 2012 ;Guttman et al., 2014 ;Mendes et al.,2014 ;Edwards et al., 2015 ;L i ue ta l . ,2 0 1 9 ). Census experimentsRoot microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 237 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseprovide information for the reductionist study of plant –microbiome interactions. Combining these data with that fromisolated strains with relatively clear genetic information, re -searchers construct a wide variety of representative SynCom(Bulgarelli et al., 2012 ;Vorholt et al., 2017 )(Figure 2 ). Bai et al.(2015 ) built a bacterial bank including most families of the rootand leaf microbiota of Arabidopsis and sequenced the genomesof representative strains, pavi ng the way for exploring the as -sembly and function of these microbial communities. Using theSynComs, interactions between plants and microbial commun -ities are simulated under controlled conditions to repeatedlyanalyze the factors driving microbial community assembly and toverify their regulatory functi ons and molecular mechanismsduring plant growth and development (B o d e n h a u s e ne ta l . ,2014 ;Bai et al., 2015 ;Lebeis et al., 2015 ;Castrillo et al.,2017 ;Chen et al., 2020 ;Finkel et al., 2020 ). In short, greatprogress has been made on plant microbiome research throughcombining culture ‐dependent and culture ‐independent ap -proaches. Holism Census approaches and reductionismSynCom approach each have their own advantages, and eithermethod alone cannot truly reveal the mechanism of microbiomeconstruction. Therefore, the comprehensive application of mul -tiple research methods will be an effective way to understandand utilize the microbiome in future research.FUTURE PERSPECTIVES:MICROBIOME APPLICATIONS INMODERN AGRICULTUREDespite great progress in understanding the root micro -biome, utilizing the microbiome to improve crop growth anddevelopment is in its initial stages. The microbes that pro -mote plant growth under experimental conditions tend toperform poorly in the natural environment (Sessitsch et al.,2019 ). Perhaps the added growth ‐promoting strains fail tobecome dominant and are unable to promote growth due topriority effects during microbial community reconstruction.Fortunately, emerging information about hub strains andkeystone species in the microbial community provides furtherguidance for utilizing bene ﬁcial microbes (Agler et al.,2016 ;Niu et al., 2017 ). Hub species are microbes whichestablish more connections with other microorganisms withina microbial network, with some playing a crucial role instructuring the composition of the whole community and aredeﬁned as keystone species (Berry and Widder, 2014 ). Wepropose that it is possible to make use of keystone species inmodern agriculture systems as illustrated below. On the onehand, direct addition of keystone species with growth ‐promoting function to a less healthy microbial communitycould potentially improve the composition and structure ofthat community, making it healthier. On the other hand, somekeystone species themselves do not promote plant growth,but act as a mediator that indirectly curates a healthiercommunity; these keystone species could also be used toimprove crop performance.The effects of plant genotype on plant root exudates andthe immune system play important roles in regulating theestablishment of root microbial communities (Hacquardet al., 2017 ;Sasse et al., 2018 ;Nobori and Tsuda, 2019 ).Even though researchers have shown that some speci ﬁcgenotypes can recruit certain bene ﬁcial microbes, relevantresearch progress is still rare. It is necessary to pay moreattention to plant genes that favor colonization by speci ﬁcbene ﬁcial microbes and select for these genes during theFigure 2. Microbiome research approaches(i) Map plant genes that regulate bacterial colonization based on microbiome differences or related phenotypes. ( ii) Use census experiments to identifypotential functional bacterial strains that cause differential phenotypes in plants. ( iii) Isolate and identify strains from root ‐associated microbiota to build abacterial bank. Guided by census results, build synthetic communities (SynComs) using strains from the bacterial bank. Perform reductionist exper imentsin which a SynCom is added to sterile plants to investigate whether the SynCom has the expected biological functions. Dissect the molecular mechanism sof key host genes regulating colonization by speci ﬁc strains, ultimately to elucidate the molecular mechanism of plant recruitment of speci ﬁc strains and theeffects of their regulation on plant growth and development.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology238 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseprocess of crop breeding. Promoting the establishment ofbene ﬁcial root microbial communities through host mod -iﬁcation is a potentially effective way to promote plant growthand development. The pioneer work of integrating bene ﬁcialmicrobes in crop breeding needs more attention and supportfrom government and breeding companies. Through com -prehensive utilization of SynComs containing keystonestrains and directed plant breeding, the microbiome will playa more active role in sustainable agriculture.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis work was supported by grants from the Strategic PriorityResearch Program of the Chinese Academy of Sciences(XDA24020104, XDA28030202), the National Natural ScienceFoundation of China (31772400, 31801945), the HainanYazhou Bay Seed Laboratory (B21HJ0102), the Team ofprecise rice breeding, the Innovation Program of SAAS(CXGC2016C06), and the Chinese Academy of SciencesYouth Innovation Promotion Association (2020101).CONFLICTS OF INTERESTThe authors declare they have no con ﬂicts of interest asso -ciated with this work.Edited by: Zhizhong Gong, China Agricultural University, ChinaReceived Oct. 9, 2021; Accepted Jan. 10, 2022; Published Jan. 14, 2022FA:Free AccessREFERENCESAdair, K.L., and Douglas, A.E. (2017). Making a microbiome: The manydeterminants of host ‐associated microbial community composition.Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 35:23–29.Agler, M.T., Ruhe, J., Kroll, S., Morhenn, C., Kim, S.T., Weigel, D., andKemen, E.M. (2016). Microbial Hub taxa link host and abiotic factors toplant microbiome variation. PLoS Biol. 14:e1002352.Badri, D.V., and Vivanco, J.M. (2009). Regulation and function of rootexudates. Plant Cell Environ. 32:666 –681.Baetz, U., and Martinoia, E. (2014). Root exudates: The hidden part ofplant defense. Trends Plant Sci. 19:90–98.Bai, Y., Müller, D.B., Srinivas, G., Garrido ‐Oter, R., Potthoff, E., Rott,M., Dombrowski, N., Münch, P.C., Spaepen, S., Remus ‐Emsermann, M., Hüttel, B., McHardy, A.C., Vorholt, J.A., andSchulze ‐Lefert, P.(2015). Functional overlap of the Arabidopsis leafand root microbiota. Nature 528: 364 –369.Bais, H.P., Weir, T.L., Perry, L.G., Gilroy, S., and Vivanco, J.M. (2006).The role of root exudates in rhizosphere interactions with plants andother organisms. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 57:233 –266.Bakker, M.G., Chaparro, J.M., Manter, D.K., and Vivanco, J.M. (2015).Impacts of bulk soil microbial community structure on rhizospheremicrobiomes of Zea mays . Plant Soil 392: 115 –126.Bakker, P., Pieterse, C.M.J., de Jonge, R., and Berendsen, R.L. (2018).The soil ‐borne legacy. Cell 172: 1178 –1180.Balk, J., and Schaedler, T.A. (2014). Iron cofactor assembly in plants.Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 65:125 –153.Beneduzi, A., Ambrosini, A., and Passaglia, L.M.P. (2012). Plant growth ‐promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR): Their potential as antagonists andbiocontrol agents. Genet. Mol. Biol. 35:1044 –1051.Berendsen, R.L., Pieterse, C.M.J., and Bakker, P.A.H.M. (2012). Therhizosphere microbiome and plant health. Trends Plant Sci. 17:478 –486.Berendsen, R.L., Vismans, G., Yu, K., Song, Y., de Jonge, R., Burgman,W.P., Burmølle, M., Herschend, J., Bakker, P.A.H.M., and Pieterse,C.M.J.(2018). Disease ‐induced assemblage of a plant ‐bene ﬁcial bac -terial consortium. ISME J. 12:1496 –1507.Bergelson, J., Mittelstrass, J., and Horton, M.W. (2019). Characterizingboth bacteria and fungi improves understanding of the Arabidopsisroot microbiome. Sci. Rep. 9:24.Berry, D., and Widder, S. (2014). Deciphering microbial interactions anddetecting keystone species with co ‐occurrence networks. Front. Mi -crobiol. 5:219.Bodenhausen, N., Bortfeld ‐Miller, M., Ackermann, M., and Vorholt, J.A.(2014). A synthetic community approach reveals plant genotypesaffecting the phyllosphere microbiota. PLoS Genet. 10:e1004283.Bodenhausen, N., Horton, M.W., and Bergelson, J. (2013). Bacterialcommunities associated with the leaves and the roots of Arabidopsisthaliana . PLoS ONE 8:e56329.Bossio, D.A., and Scow, K.M. (1998). Impacts of carbon and ﬂooding onsoil microbial communities: Phospholipid fatty acid pro ﬁles and sub -strate utilization patterns. Microb. Ecol. 35:265 –278.Brader, G., Compant, S., Vescio, K., Mitter, B., Trognitz, F., Ma, L.J.,and Sessitsch, A. (2017). Ecology and genomic insights into plant ‐pathogenic and plant ‐nonpathogenic endophytes. Annu. Rev. Phyto -pathol. 55:61–83.Bulgarelli, D., Garrido ‐Oter, R., Munch, P.C., Weiman, A., Droge, J.,Pan, Y., McHardy, A.C., and Schulze ‐Lefert, P. (2015). Structure andfunction of the bacterial root microbiota in wild and domesticatedbarley. Cell Host Microbe 17:392 –403.Bulgarelli, D., Rott, M., Schlaeppi, K., Ver Loren van Themaat, E., Ah -madinejad, N., Assenza, F., Rauf, P., Huettel, B., Reinhardt, R.,Schmelzer, E., Peplies, J., Gloeckner, F.O., Amann, R., Eickhorst, T.,and Schulze ‐Lefert, P.(2012). Revealing structure and assembly cuesforArabidopsis root ‐inhabiting bacterial microbiota. Nature 488: 91–95.Bulgarelli, D., Schlaeppi, K., Spaepen, S., Ver Loren van Themaat, E.,and Schulze ‐Lefert, P. (2013). Structure and functions of the bacterialmicrobiota of plants. Annu. Rev. Plant Biol. 64:807 –838.Callahan, B.J., McMurdie, P.J., Rosen, M.J., Han, A.W., Johnson, A.J.A., and Holmes, S.P. (2016). DADA2: High ‐resolution sample inferencefrom Illumina amplicon data. Nat. Methods 13:581 –583.Caporaso, J.G., Kuczynski, J., Stombaugh, J., Bittinger, K., Bushman, F.D., Costello, E.K., Fierer, N., Pena, A.G., Goodrich, J.K., Gordon, J.I.,Huttley, G.A., Kelley, S.T., Knights, D., Koenig, J.E., Ley, R.E., Loz -upone, C.A., McDonald, D., Muegg e, B.D., Pirrung, M., Reeder, J.,Sevinsky, J.R., Tumbaugh, P.J., Walters, W.A., Widmann, J., Yatsu -nenko, T., Zaneveld, J., and Knight, R.(2010). QIIME allows analysis ofhigh ‐throughput community sequencing data. Nat. Methods 7:335 –336.Carlsson, G., and Huss ‐Danell, K. (2003). Nitrogen ﬁxation in perennialforage legumes in the ﬁeld. Plant Soil 253: 353 –372.Carlstrom, C.I., Field, C.M., Bortfeld ‐Miller, M., Muller, B., Sunagawa,S., and Vorholt, J.A. (2019). Synthetic microbiota reveal priority effectsand keystone strains in the Arabidopsis phyllosphere. Nat. Ecol. Evol.3:1445 –1454.Castrillo, G., Teixeira, P.J.P.L., Paredes, S.H., Law, T.F., de Lorenzo,L., Feltcher, M.E., Finkel, O.M., Break ﬁeld, N.W., Mieczkowski, P.,Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 239 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseJones, C.D., Paz ‐Ares, J., and Dangl, J.L. (2017). Root microbiotadrive direct integration of phosphate stress and immunity. Nature 543:513 –518.Chaparro, J.M., Badri, D.V., and Vivanco, J.M. (2014). Rhizosphere mi -crobiome assemblage is affected by plant development. ISME J. 8:790 –803.Chen, S.M., Waghmode, T.R., Sun, R.B., Kuramae, E.E., Hu, C.S., andLiu, B.B. (2019). Root ‐associated microbiomes of wheat under thecombined effect of plant development and nitrogen fertilization. Mi -crobiome 7:136.Chen, T., Nomura, K., Wang, X., Sohrabi, R., Xu, J., Yao, L., Paasch, B.C., Ma, L., Kremer, J., Cheng, Y., Zhang, L., Wang, N., Wang, E.,Xin, X.F., and He, S.Y.(2020). A plant genetic network for preventingdysbiosis in the phyllosphere. Nature 580: 653 –657.Chinchilla, D., Bauer, Z., Regenass, M., Boller, T., and Felix, G. (2006).TheArabidopsis receptor kinase FLS2 binds ﬂg22 and determines thespeci ﬁcity of ﬂagellin perception. Plant Cell 18:465 –476.Chisholm, S.T., Coaker, G., Day, B., and Staskawicz, B.J. (2006). Host ‐microbe interactions: Shaping the evolution of the plant immune re -sponse. Cell 124: 803 –814.Choi, K., Khan, R., and Lee, S.W. (2021). Dissection of plant microbiotaand plant ‐microbiome interactions. J. Microbiol. 59:281 –291.Colaianni, N.R., Parys, K., Lee, H. ‐S., Conway, J.M., Kim, N.H., Edel -bacher, N., Mucyn, T.S., Madalinski, M., Law, T.F., Jones, C.D.,Belkhadir, Y., and Dangl, J.L.(2021). A complex immune response toﬂagellin epitope variation in commensal communities. Cell HostMicrobe 29:635 –649.Compant, S., Duffy, B., Nowak, J., Clement, C., and Barka, E.A. (2005).Use of plant growth ‐promoting bacteria for biocontrol of plant dis -eases: Principles, mechanisms of action, and future prospects. Appl.Environ. Microbiol. 71:4951 –4959.Compant, S., Samad, A., Faist, H., and Sessitsch, A. (2019). A review onthe plant microbiome: Ecology, functions, and emerging trends in mi -crobial application. J. Adv. Res. 19:29–37.Couto, D., and Zipfel, C. (2016). Regulation of pattern recognition re -ceptor signalling in plants. Nat. Rev. Immunol. 16:537 –552.Dhamala, N.R., Eriksen, J., Carlsson, G., Soegaard, K., and Ras -mussen, J. (2017). Highly productive forage legume stands show nopositive biodiversity effect on yield and N ‐2‐ﬁxation. Plant Soil 417:169 –182.Durán, P., Thiergart, T., Garrido ‐Oter, R., Agler, M., Kemen, E.,Schulze ‐Lefert, P., and Hacquard, S. (2018). Microbial interkingdominteractions in roots promote Arabidopsis survival. Cell 175: 973 –983.Durr, J., Reyt, G., Spaepen, S., Hilton, S., Meehan, C., Qi, W., Kamiya,T., Flis, P., Dickinson, H.G., Feher, A., Shivshankar, U., Pavagadhi,S., Swarup, S., Salt, D., Bending, G.D., and Gutierrez ‐Marcos, J.(2021). A novel signaling pathway required for Arabidopsis endodermalroot organization shapes the rhizosphere microbiome. Plant CellPhysiol. 62:248 –261.Edwards, J., Johnson, C., Santos ‐Medellín, C., Lurie, E., Podishetty, N.K., Bhatnagar, S., Eisen, J.A., and Sundaresan, V. (2015). Structure,variation, and assembly of the root ‐associated microbiomes of rice.Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 112: E911 –E920.Edwards, J.A., Santos ‐Medellin, C.M., Liechty, Z.S., Nguyen, B., Lurie,E., Eason, S., Phillips, G., and Sundaresan, V. (2018). Compositionalshifts in root ‐associated bacterial and archaeal microbiota track theplant life cycle in ﬁeld‐grown rice. PLoS Biol. 16:e2003862.Ezawa, T., and Saito, K. (2018). How do arbuscular mycorrhizal fungihandle phosphate? New insight into ﬁne‐tuning of phosphate metab -olism. New Phytol. 220: 1116 –1121.Felix, G., Duran, J.D., Volko, S., and Boller, T. (1999). Plants have asensitive perception system for the most conserved domain of bacte -rialﬂagellin. Plant J. 18:265 –276.Finkel, O.M., Salas ‐Gonzalez, I., Castrillo, G., Conway, J.M., Law, T.F.,Teixeira, P., Wilson, E.D., Fitzpatrick, C.R., Jones, C.D., and Dangl,J.L.(2020). A single bacterial genus maintains root growth in a complexmicrobiome. Nature 587: 103 –108.Gans, J., Wolinsky, M., and Dunbar, J. (2005). Computational improve -ments reveal great bacterial diversity and high metal toxicity in soil.Science 309: 1387 –1390.Guttman, D.S., McHardy, A.C., and Schulze ‐Lefert, P. (2014). Microbialgenome ‐enabled insights into plant ‐microorganism interactions. Nat.Rev. Genet. 15:797 –813.Hacquard, S., Spaepen, S., Garrido ‐Oter, R., and Schulze ‐Lefert, P.(2017). Interplay between innate immunity and the plant microbiota.Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 55:565 –589.Harbort, C.J., Hashimoto, M., Inoue, H., Niu, Y., Guan, R., Rombolà, A.D., Kopriva, S., Voges, M., Sattely, E.S., Garrido ‐Oter, R., andSchulze ‐Lefert, P. (2020). Root ‐secreted coumarins and the micro -biota interact to improve iron nutrition in Arabidopsis . Cell Host Mi -crobe 28:825 –837.Hartman, K., and Tringe, S.G. (2019). Interactions between plants andsoil shaping the root microbiome under abiotic stress. Biochem. J. 476:2705 –2724.Hartman, K., van der Heijden, M.G., Roussely ‐Provent, V., Walser, J.C.,and Schlaeppi, K. (2017). Deciphering composition and function of theroot microbiome of a legume plant. Microbiome 5:2.He, X., Zhang, Q., Li, B., Jin, Y., Jiang, L., and Wu, R. (2021). Networkmapping of root ‐microbe interactions in Arabidopsis thaliana . NPJ Bi -oﬁlms Microbiomes 7:72.Hill, G.T., Mitkowski, N.A., Aldrich ‐Wolfe, L., Emele, L.R., Jurkonie, D.D., Ficke, A., Maldonado ‐Ramírez, S., Lynch, S.T., and Nelson, E.B.(2000). Methods for assessing the composition and diversity of soilmicrobial communities. Appl. Soil Ecol. 15:25–36.Hiruma, K., Gerlach, N., Sacristan, S., Nakano, R.T., Hacquard, S.,Kracher, B., Neumann, U., Ramirez, D., Bucher, M., O'Connell, R.J.,and Schulze ‐Lefert, P.(2016). Root endophyte colletotrichumtoﬁeldiae confers plant ﬁtness bene ﬁts that are phosphate statusdependent. Cell 165: 464 –474.Hooper, L.V., and Gordon, J.I. (2001). Commensal host ‐bacterial rela -tionships in the gut. Science 292: 1115 –1118.Hou, S., Thiergart, T., Vannier, N., Mesny, F., Ziegler, J., Pickel, B., andHacquard, S. (2021). A microbiota ‐root ‐shoot circuit favours Arabi -dopsis growth over defence under suboptimal light. Nat. Plants 7:1078 –1092.Hu, L., Robert, C.A.M., Cadot, S., Zhang, X., Ye, M., Li, B., Manzo, D.,Chervet, N., Steinger, T., van der Heijden, M.G.A., Schlaeppi, K.,and Erb, M.(2018). Root exudate metabolites drive plant ‐soil feed -backs on growth and defense by shaping the rhizosphere microbiota.Nat. Commun. 9:2738.Huang, A.C., Jiang, T., Liu, Y.X., Bai, Y.C., Reed, J., Qu, B., Goossens,A., Nützmann, H.W., Bai, Y., and Osbourn, A. (2019a). A specializedmetabolic network selectively modulates Arabidopsis root microbiota.Science 364: eaau6389.Huang, G., Jin, Q., Peng, H., Zhu, T., and Ye, H. (2019b). Effect of afungus, Hypoxylon spp., on endophytes in the roots of Asparagus .FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 366: fnz207.Huang, X.F., Chaparro, J.M., Reardon, K.F., Zhang, R.F., Shen, Q.R.,and Vivanco, J.M. (2014). Rhizosphere interactions: Root exudates,microbes, and microbial communities. Botany 92:267 –275.Inceoglu, O., Abu Al ‐Soud, W., Salles, J.F., Semenov, A.V., and vanElsas, J.D. (2011). Comparative analysis of bacterial communities in apotato ﬁeld as determined by pyrosequencing. PLoS ONE 6:e23321.Jo, J., Oh, J., and Park, C. (2020). Microbial community analysis usinghigh ‐throughput sequencing technology: A beginner's guide for mi -crobiologists. J. Microbiol. 58:176 –192.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology240 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseJones, J.D., and Dangl, J.L. (2006). The plant immune system. Nature444: 323 –329.Kang, M.S., Hur, M., and Park, S.J. (2019). Rhizocompartments andenvironmental factors affect microbial composition and variation innative plants. J. Microbiol. 57:550 –561.Kaushal, R., Peng, L., Singh, S.K., Zhang, M., Zhang, X., Vílchez, J.I.,Wang, Z., He, D., Yang, Y., Lv, S., Xu, Z., Morcillo, R.J.L., Wang, W.,Huang, W., Paré, P.W., Song, C.P., Zhu, J.K., Liu, R., Zhong, W., Ma,P., and Zhang, H.(2021). Dicer ‐like proteins in ﬂuence Arabidopsis rootmicrobiota independent of RNA ‐directed DNA methylation. Micro -biome 9:57.Knief, C., Delmotte, N., Chaffron, S., Stark, M., Innerebner, G., Wass -mann, R., von Mering, C., and Vorholt, J.A. (2012). Meta -proteogenomic analysis of microbial communities in the phyllosphereand rhizosphere of rice. ISME J. 6:1378 –1390.Knight, R., Vrbanac, A., Taylor, B.C., Aksenov, A., Callewaert, C., De -belius, J., Gonzalez, A., Kosciolek, T., McCall, L.I., McDonald, D.,Melnik, A.V., Morton, J.T., Navas, J., Quinn, R.A., Sanders, J.G.,Swafford, A.D., Thompson, L.R., Tripathi, A., Xu, Z.J.Z., Zaneveld,J.R., Zhu, Q.Y., Caporaso, J.G., and Dorrestein, P.C.(2018). Bestpractices for analysing microbiomes. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 16:410 –422.Koprivova, A., Schuck, S., Jacoby, R.P., Klinkhammer, I., Welter, B.,Leson, L., Martyn, A., Nauen, J., Grabenhorst, N., Mandelkow, J.F.,Zuccaro, A., Zeier, J., and Kopriva, S.(2019). Root ‐speci ﬁc cama -lexin biosynthesis controls the plant growth ‐promoting effects of mul -tiple bacterial strains. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 116: 15735 –15744.Koutroubas, S.D., and Ntanos, D.A. (2003). Genotypic differences forgrain yield and nitrogen utilization in Indica and Japonica rice underMediterranean conditions. Field Crop Res. 83:251 –260.Krohling, C.A., Eutropio, F.J., Bertolazi, A.A., Dobbss, L.B., Campos -trini, E., Dias, T., and Ramos, A.C. (2016). Ecophysiology of ironhomeostasis in plants. Soil Sci. Plant Nutr. 62:39–47.Kwak, M.J., Kong, H.G., Choi, K., Kwon, S.K., Song, J.Y., Lee, J., Lee,P.A., Choi, S.Y., Seo, M., Lee, H.J., Jung, E.J., Park, H., Roy, N.,Kim, H., Lee, M.M., Rubin, E.M., Lee, S.W., and Kim, J.F.(2018).Rhizosphere microbiome structure alters to enable wilt resistance intomato. Nat. Biotechnol. 36:1100 –1109.Lebeis, S.L., Paredes, S.H., Lundberg, D.S., Break ﬁeld, N., Gehring, J.,McDonald, M., Malfatti, S., del Rio, T.G., Jones, C.D., Tringe, S.G.,and Dangl, J.L.(2015). Salicylic acid modulates colonization of theroot microbiome by speci ﬁc bacterial taxa. Science 349: 860 –864.Levy, A., Salas Gonzalez, I., Mittelviefhaus, M., Clingenpeel, S., Her -rera Paredes, S., Miao, J., Wang, K., Devescovi, G., Stillman, K.,Monteiro, F., Rangel Alvarez, B., Lundberg, D.S., Lu, T. ‐Y., Lebeis,S., Jin, Z., McDonald, M., Klein, A.P., Feltcher, M.E., Rio, T.G.,Grant, S.R., Doty, S.L., Ley, R.E., Zhao, B., Venturi, V., Pelletier, D.A., Vorholt, J.A., Tringe, S.G., Woyke, T., and Dangl, J.L.(2017).Genomic features of bacterial adaptation to plants. Nat. Genet. 50:138 –150.Li, H., La, S.K., Zhang, X., Gao, L.H., and Tian, Y.Q. (2021). Salt ‐inducedrecruitment of speci ﬁc root ‐associated bacterial consortium capable ofenhancing plant adaptability to salt stress. ISME J. 15:2865 –2882.Lindstrom, K., and Mousavi, S.A. (2020). Effectiveness of nitrogen ﬁx-ation in rhizobia. Microb. Biotechnol. 13:1314 –1335.Liu, H.W., Brettell, L.E., Qiu, Z.G., and Singh, B.K. (2020). Microbiome ‐mediated stress resistance in plants. Trends Plant Sci. 25:733 –743.Liu, Y.X., Qin, Y., and Bai, Y. (2019). Reductionist synthetic communityapproaches in root microbiome research. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 49:97–102.Liu, Y.X., Qin, Y., Chen, T., Lu, M., Qian, X., Guo, X., and Bai, Y. (2021). Apractical guide to amplicon and metagenomic analysis of microbiomedata. Protein Cell 12:315 –330.Lu, T., Ke, M., Lavoie, M., Jin, Y., Fan, X., Zhang, Z., Fu, Z., Sun, L.,Gillings, M., Peñuelas, J., Qian, H., and Zhu, Y.G. (2018).Rhizosphere microorganisms can in ﬂuence the timing of plant ﬂow-ering. Microbiome 6:231.Lugtenberg, B., and Kamilova, F. (2009). Plant ‐growth ‐promoting rhizo -bacteria. Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 63:541 –556.Lundberg, D.S., Lebeis, S.L., Paredes, S.H., Yourstone, S., Gehring, J.,Malfatti, S., Tremblay, J., Engelbrektson, A., Kunin, V., del Rio, T.G.,Edgar, R.C., Eickhorst, T., Ley, R.E., Hugenholtz, P., Tringe, S.G.,and Dangl, J.L.(2012). De ﬁning the core Arabidopsis thaliana rootmicrobiome. Nature 488: 86–90.Lv, Z.Y., Dai, R., Xu, H.R., Liu, Y.X., Bai, B., Meng, Y., Li, H.Y., Cao, X.F.,Bai, Y., Song, X.W., and Zhang, J.Y. (2021). The rice histone meth -ylation regulates hub species of the root microbiota. J. Genet.Genomics 48:836 –843.Ma, K.W., Niu, Y., Jia, Y., Ordon, J., Copeland, C., Emonet, A., Geldner,N., Guan, R., Stolze, S.C., Nakagami, H., Garrido ‐Oter, R., andSchulze ‐Lefert, P. (2021). Coordination of microbe ‐host homeostasisby crosstalk with plant innate immunity. Nat. Plants 7:814 –825.Maier, B.A., Kiefer, P., Field, C.M., Hemmerle, L., Bortfeld ‐Miller, M.,Emmenegger, B., Schäfer, M., Pfeilmeier, S., Sunagawa, S., Vogel,C.M., and Vorholt, J.A. (2021). A general non ‐self response as part ofplant immunity. Nat. Plants 7:696 –705.Marchesi, J.R., and Ravel, J. (2015). The vocabulary of microbiome re -search: A proposal. Microbiome 3:31.Masson ‐Boivin, C., and Sachs, J.L. (2018). Symbiotic nitrogen ﬁxation byrhizobia ‐the roots of a success story. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 44:7–15.Mendes, L.W., Kuramae, E.E., Navarrete, A.A., van Veen, J.A., andTsai, S.M. (2014). Taxonomical and functional microbial communityselection in soybean rhizosphere. ISME J. 8:1577 –1587.Morrissey, J., and Guerinot, M.L. (2009). Iron uptake and transport inplants: The good, the bad, and the lonome. Chem. Rev. 109: 4553 –4567.Motte, H., and Beeckman, T. (2017). PHR1 balances between nutritionand immunity in plants. Dev. Cell 41:5–7.Mueller, U.G., and Sachs, J.L. (2015). Engineering microbiomes to im -prove plant and animal health. Trends Microbiol. 23:606 –617.Niu, B., Paulson, J.N., Zheng, X., and Kolter, R. (2017). Simpli ﬁed andrepresentative bacterial community of maize roots. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U.S.A. 114: E2450 –E2459.Nobori, T., and Tsuda, K. (2019). The plant immune system in hetero -geneous environments. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 50:58–66.Nomura, K., Melotto, M., and He, S.Y. (2005). Suppression of host de -fense in compatible plant ‐Pseudomonas syringae interactions. Curr.Opin. Plant Biol. 8:361 –368.Panke ‐Buisse, K., Poole, A.C., Goodrich, J.K., Ley, R.E., and Kao ‐Knifﬁn, J. (2015). Selection on soil microbiomes reveals reproducibleimpacts on plant function. ISME J. 9:980 –989.Parys, K., Colaianni, N.R., Lee, H. ‐S., Hohmann, U., Edelbacher, N.,Trgovcevic, A., Blahovska, Z., Lee, D., Mechtler, A., Muhari ‐Portik,Z., Madalinski, M., Schandry, N., Rodríguez ‐Arévalo, I., Becker, C.,Sonnleitner, E., Korte, A., Bläsi, U., Geldner, N., Hothorn, M., Jones,C.D., Dangl, J.L., and Belkhadir, Y.(2021). Signatures of antagonisticpleiotropy in a bacterial ﬂagellin epitope. Cell Host Microbe 29:620 –634.Peiffer, J.A., Spor, A., Koren, O., Jin, Z., Tringe, S.G., Dangl, J.L.,Buckler, E.S., and Ley, R.E. (2013). Diversity and heritability of themaize rhizosphere microbiome under ﬁeld conditions. Proc. Natl. Acad.Sci. U.S.A. 110: 6548 –6553.Perez ‐Jaramillo, J.E., Mendes, R., and Raaijmakers, J.M. (2016). Im -pact of plant domestication on rhizosphere microbiome assembly andfunctions. Plant Mol. Biol. 90:635 –644.Raaijmakers, J.M., and Mazzola, M. (2016). Soil immune responses soilmicrobiomes may be harnessed for plant health. Science 352:1392 –1393.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 241 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseRakotoson, T., Dusserre, J., Letourmy, P., Ramonta, I.R., Cao, T.V.,Ramanantsoanirina, A., Roumet, P., Ahmadi, N., and Raboin, L.M.(2017). Genetic variability of nitrogen use ef ﬁciency in rainfed uplandrice. Field Crop Res. 213: 194 –203.Ravanbakhsh, M., Kowalchuk, G.A., and Jousset, A. (2019). Root ‐associated microorganisms reprogram plant life history along thegrowth ‐stress resistance tradeoff. ISME J. 13:3093 –3101.Rolli, E., Marasco, R., Vigani, G., Ettoumi, B., Mapelli, F., Deangelis, M.L., Gandol ﬁ, C., Casati, E., Previtali, F., Gerbino, R., Pierotti Cei, F.,Borin, S., Sorlini, C., Zocchi, G., and Daffonchio, D. (2015). Improvedplant resistance to drought is promoted by the root ‐associated mi -crobiome as a water stress ‐dependent trait. Environ. Microbiol. 17:316 –331.Rudrappa, T., Czymmek, K.J., Pare ́, P.W., and Bais, H.P. (2008). Root ‐secreted malic acid recruits bene ﬁcial soil bacteria. Plant Physiol. 148:1547 –1556.Salas ‐González, I., Reyt, G., Flis, P., Custódio, V., Gopaulchan, D.,Bakhoum, N., Dew, T.P., Suresh, K., Franke, R.B., Dangl, J.L., Salt,D.E., and Castrillo, G. (2021). Coordination between microbiota androot endodermis supports plant mineral nutrient homeostasis. Science371: eabd0695.Santos ‐Medellín, C., Liechty, Z., Edwards, J., Nguyen, B., Huang, B.,Weimer, B.C., and Sundaresan, V. (2021). Prolonged drought impartslasting compositional changes to the rice root microbiome. Nat. Plants7:1065 –1077.Sasse, J., Martinoia, E., and Northen, T. (2018). Feed your friends: Doplant exudates shape the root microbiome? Trends Plant Sci. 23:25–41.Schachtman, D.P., Reid, R.J., and Ayling, S.M. (1998). Phosphorusuptake by plants: From soil to cell. Plant Physiol. 116: 447 –453.Schlaeppi, K., Dombrowski, N., Oter, R.G., van Themaat, E.V.L., andSchulze ‐Lefert, P. (2014). Quantitative divergence of the bacterial rootmicrobiota in Arabidopsis thaliana relatives. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.111: 585 –592.Schreiter, S., Ding, G.C., Heuer, H., Neumann, G., Sandmann, M.,Grosch, R., Kropf, S., and Smalla, K. (2014). Effect of the soil type onthe microbiome in the rhizosphere of ﬁeld‐grown lettuce. Front. Mi -crobiol. 5:144.Sessitsch, A., Pfaffenbichler, N., and Mitter, B. (2019). Microbiomeapplications from lab to ﬁeld: Facing complexity. Trends Plant Sci. 24:194 –198.Shakya, M., Gottel, N., Castro, H., Yang, Z.M.K., Gunter, L., Labbe, J.,Muchero, W., Bonito, G., Vilgalys, R., Tuskan, G., Podar, M., andSchadt, C.W.(2013). A multifactor analysis of fungal and bacterialcommunity structure in the root microbiome of mature Populus del -toides trees. PLoS ONE 8:e76382.Snelders, N.C., Petti, G.C., van den Berg, G.C.M., Seidl, M.F., andThomma, B. (2021). An ancient antimicrobial protein co ‐opted by afungal plant pathogen for in planta mycobiome manipulation. Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 118: e2110968118.Song, Y., Wilson, A.J., Zhang, X.C., Thoms, D., Sohrabi, R., Song, S.Y.,Geissmann, Q., Liu, Y., Walgren, L., He, S.Y., and Haney, C.H.(2021). FERONIA restricts Pseudomonas in the rhizosphere micro -biome via regulation of reactive oxygen species. Nat. Plants 7:644 –654.Staley, C., Ferrieri, A.P., Tfaily, M.M., Cui, Y., Chu, R.K., Wang, P.,Shaw, J.B., Ansong, C.K., Brewer, H., Norbeck, A.D., Markillie, M.,do Amaral, F., Tuleski, T., Pellizzaro, T., Agtuca, B., Ferrieri, R.,Tringe, S.G., Pa ša‐Toli ć, L., Stacey, G., and Sadowsky, M.J.(2017).Diurnal cycling of rhizosphere bacterial communities is associated withshifts in carbon metabolism. Microbiome 5:65.Stringlis, I.A., and Pieterse, C.M.J. (2021). Evolutionary “hide and seek ”between bacterial ﬂagellin and the plant immune system. Cell HostMicrobe 29:548 –550.Stringlis, I.A., Yu, K., Feussner, K., de Jonge, R., Van Bentum, S., VanVerk, M.C., Berendsen, R.L., Bakker, P., Feussner, I., and Pieterse,C.M.J.(2018). MYB72 ‐dependent coumarin exudation shapes rootmicrobiome assembly to promote plant health. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 115: E5213 –E5222.Tecon, R., and Or, D. (2017). Biophysical processes supporting the di -versity of microbial life in soil. FEMS Microbiol. Rev. 41:599 –623.Teixeira, P., Colaianni, N.R., Law, T.F., Conway, J.M., Gilbert, S., Li, H.,Salas ‐Gonzalez, I., Panda, D., Del Risco, N.M., Finkel, O.M., Cast -rillo, G., Mieczkowski, P., Jones, C.D., and Dangl, J.L. (2021).Speci ﬁc modulation of the root immune system by a community ofcommensal bacteria. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 118: e2100678118.Teixeira, P.J.P.L., Colaianni, N.R., Fitzpatrick, C.R., and Dangl, J.L.(2019). Beyond pathogens: Microbiota interactions with the plant im -mune system. Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 49:7–17.Thoms, D., Liang, Y., and Haney, C.H. (2021). Maintaining symbiotichomeostasis: How do plants engage with bene ﬁcial microorganismswhile at the same time restricting pathogens? Mol. Plant Microbe. In -teract. 34:462 –469.Toro, M., Azcon, R., and Barea, J. (1997). Improvement of arbuscularmycorrhiza development by inoculation of soil with phosphate ‐solubilizing rhizobacteria to improve rock phosphate bioavailability((sup32)P) and nutrient cycling. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 63:4408 –4412.Trivedi, P., Leach, J.E., Tringe, S.G., Sa, T., and Singh, B.K. (2020).Plant ‐microbiome interactions: From community assembly to planthealth. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 18:607 –621.Tzipilevich, E., Russ, D., Dangl, J.L., and Benfey, P.N. (2021). Plantimmune system activation is necessary for ef ﬁcient root colonization byauxin ‐secreting bene ﬁcial bacteria. Cell Host Microbe 29:1507 –1520.Vance, C.P., Uhde ‐Stone, C., and Allan, D.L. (2003). Phosphorus ac -quisition and use: Critical adaptations by plants for securing a non -renewable resource. New Phytol. 157: 423 –447.Vandenkoornhuyse, P., Quaiser, A., Duhamel, M., Le Van, A., andDufresne, A. (2015). The importance of the microbiome of the plantholobiont. New Phytol. 206: 1196 –1206.Voges, M.J.E.E.E., Bai, Y., Schulze ‐Lefert, P., and Sattely, E.S. (2019).Plant ‐derived coumarins shape the composition of an Arabidopsis syn-thetic root microbiome. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 116: 12558 –12565.Vorholt, J.A., Vogel, C., Carlstrom, C.I., and Muller, D.B. (2017). Es -tablishing causality: Opportunities of synthetic communities for plantmicrobiome research. Cell Host Microbe 22:142 –155.Wagner, M.R., Lundberg, D.S., Coleman ‐Derr, D., Tringe, S.G., Dangl,J.L., and Mitchell ‐Olds, T. (2014). Natural soil microbes alter ﬂoweringphenology and the intensity of selection on ﬂowering time in a wildArabidopsis relative. Ecol. Lett. 17:717 –726.Wagner, M.R., Tang, C., Salvato, F., Clouse, K.M., Bartlett, A., Vintila,S., Phillips, L., Sermons, S., Hoffmann, M., Balint ‐Kurti, P.J., andKleiner, M. (2021). Microbe ‐dependent heterosis in maize. Proc. Natl.Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 118: e2021965118.Walker, T.S., Bais, H.P., Grotewold, E., and Vivanco, J.M. (2003). Rootexudation and rhizosphere biology. Plant Physiol. 132: 44–51.Weller, D.M., Raaijmakers, J.M., Gardener, B.B., and Thomashow, L.S.(2002). Microbial populations responsible for speci ﬁc soil sup -pressiveness to plant pathogens. Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 40:309 –348.Wippel, K., Tao, K., Niu, Y.L., Zgadzaj, R., Kiel, N., Guan, R., Dahms, E.,Zhang, P.F., Jensen, D.B., Logemann, E., Radutoiu, S., Schulze ‐Lefert, P., and Garrido ‐Oter, R. (2021). Host preference and in -vasiveness of commensal bacteria in the Lotus and Arabidopsis rootmicrobiota. Nat. Microbiol. 6:1150 –1162.Xin, X.F., Kvitko, B., and He, S.Y. (2018). Pseudomonas syringae: What ittakes to be a pathogen. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 16:316 –328.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biology242 February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 www.jipb.net 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseXiong, C., Singh, B.K., He, J.Z., Han, Y.L., Li, P.P., Wan, L.H., Meng, G.Z., Liu, S.Y., Wang, J.T., Wu, C.F., Ge, A.H., and Zhang, L.M. (2021a).Plant developmental stage drives the differentiation in ecological role ofthe maize microbiome. Microbiome 9:171.Xiong, C., Zhu, Y.G., Wang, J.T., Singh, B., Han, L.L., Shen, J.P., Li, P.P., Wang, G.B., Wu, C.F., Ge, A.H., Zhang, L.M., and He, J.Z.(2021b). Host selection shapes crop microbiome assembly and net -work complexity. New Phytol. 229: 1091 –1104.Xu, J., Zhang, Y., Zhang, P., Trivedi, P., Riera, N., Wang, Y., Liu, X., Fan,G., Tang, J., Coletta ‐Filho, H.D., Cubero, J., Deng, X., Ancona, V.,Lu, Z., Zhong, B., Roper, M.C., Capote, N., Catara, V., Pietersen, G.,Vernière, C., Al ‐Sadi, A.M., Li, L., Yang, F., Xu, X., Wang, J., Yang,H., Jin, T., and Wang, N.(2018a). The structure and function of theglobal citrus rhizosphere microbiome. Nat. Commun. 9:4894.Xu, L., and Coleman ‐Derr, D. (2019). Causes and consequences of aconserved bacterial root microbiome response to drought stress. Curr.Opin. Microbiol. 49:1–6.Xu, L., Dong, Z.B., Chiniquy, D., Pierroz, G., Deng, S.W., Gao, C., Di -amond, S., Simmons, T., Wipf, H.M.L., Caddell, D., Varoquaux, N.,Madera, M.A., Hutmacher, R., Deutschbauer, A., Dahlberg, J.A.,Guerinot, M.L., Purdom, E., Ban ﬁeld, J.F., Taylor, J.W., Lemaux, P.G., and Coleman ‐Derr, D.(2021). Genome ‐resolved metagenomicsreveals role of iron metabolism in drought ‐induced rhizosphere mi -crobiome dynamics. Nat. Commun. 12:3209.Xu, L., Naylor, D., Dong, Z., Simmons, T., Pierroz, G., Hixson, K.K.,Kim, Y.M., Zink, E.M., Engbrecht, K.M., Wang, Y., Gao, C., DeGraaf,S., Madera, M.A., Sievert, J.A., Hollingsworth, J., Birdseye, D.,Scheller, H.V., Hutmacher, R., Dahlberg, J., Jansson, C., Taylor, J.W., Lemaux, P.G., and Coleman ‐Derr, D.(2018b). Drought delaysdevelopment of the sorghum root microbiome and enriches for mon -oderm bacteria. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 115: E4284 –E4293.Yu, K., Liu, Y., Tichelaar, R., Savant, N., Lagendijk, E., van Kuijk, S.J.L.,Stringlis, I.A., van Dijken, A.J.H., Pieterse, C.M.J., Bakker, P., Haney,C.H., and Berendsen, R.L.(2019a). Rhizosphere ‐associated pseudo -monas suppress local root immune responses by gluconic acid ‐mediated lowering of environmental pH. Curr. Biol. 29:3913 –3920.Yu, K., Pieterse, C.M.J., Bakker, P., and Berendsen, R.L. (2019b).Bene ﬁcial microbes going underground of root immunity. Plant CellEnviron. 42:2860 –2870.Yu, P., He, X.M., Baer, M., Beirinckx, S., Tian, T., Moya, Y.A.T., Zhang,X.C., Deichmann, M., Frey, F.P., Bresgen, V., Li, C.J., Razavi, B.S.,Schaaf, G., von Wiren, N., Su, Z., Bucher, M., Tsuda, K., Goor -machtig, S., Chen, X.P., and Hochholdinger, F.(2021). Plant ﬂavonesenrich rhizosphere Oxalobacteraceae to improve maize performanceunder nitrogen deprivation. Nat. Plants 7:481 –499.Yuan, J., Zhao, J., Wen, T., Zhao, M., Li, R., Goossens, P., Huang, Q.,Bai, Y., Vivanco, J.M., Kowalchuk, G.A., Berendsen, R.L., and Shen,Q.(2018). Root exudates drive the soil ‐borne legacy of abovegroundpathogen infection. Microbiome 6:156.Zarraonaindia, I., Owens, S.M., Weisenhorn, P., West, K., Hampton ‐Marcell, J., Lax, S., Bokulich, N.A., Mills, D.A., Martin, G., Taghavi,S., van der Lelie, D., and Gilbert, J.A.(2015). The soil microbiomeinﬂuences grapevine ‐associated microbiota. mBio 6:e02527 ‐14.Zhalnina, K., Louie, K.B., Hao, Z., Mansoori, N., da Rocha, U.N., Shi, S.,Cho, H., Karaoz, U., Loqué, D., Bowen, B.P., Firestone, M.K.,Northen, T.R., and Brodie, E.L.(2018). Dynamic root exudate chem -istry and microbial substrate preferences drive patterns in rhizospheremicrobial community assembly. Nat. Microbiol. 3:470 –480.Z h a n g ,J . ,C o o k ,J . ,N e a r i n g ,J . T . ,Z h a n g ,J . ,R a u d o n i s ,R . ,G l i c k ,B . R . ,Langille, M.G.I., and Cheng, Z. (2021a). Harnessing the plant microbiometo promote the growth of agricultural crops. Microbiol. Res. 245: 126690.Zhang, J., Liu, Y. ‐X., Zhang, N., Hu, B., Jin, T., Xu, H., Qin, Y., Yan, P.,Zhang, X., Guo, X., Hui, J., Cao, S., Wang, X., Wang, C., Wang, H.,Qu, B., Fan, G., Yuan, L., Garrido ‐Oter, R., Chu, C., and Bai, Y.(2019). NRT1.1B is associated with root microbiota composition andnitrogen use in ﬁeld‐grown rice. Nat. Biotechnol. 37:676 –684.Zhang, J.Y., Liu, Y.X., Guo, X.X., Qin, Y., Garrido ‐Oter, R., Schulze ‐Lefert, P., and Bai, Y. (2021b). High ‐throughput cultivation and iden -tiﬁcation of bacteria from the plant root microbiota. Nat. Protoc. 16:988 –1012.Zhang, J.Y., Zhang, N., Liu, Y.X., Zhang, X.N., Hu, B., Qin, Y., Xu, H.R.,Wang, H., Guo, X.X., Qian, J.M., Wang, W., Zhang, P.F., Jin, T., Chu,C.C., and Bai, Y.(2018). Root microbiota shift in rice correlates withresident time in the ﬁeld and developmental stage. Sci. China: Life Sci.61:613 –621.Zhou, F., Emonet, A., Dénervaud Tendon, V., Marhavy, P., Wu, D., Lahaye,T., and Geldner, N. (2020). Co ‐incidence of damage and microbial patternscontrols localized immune responses in roots. Cell 180: 440 –453.Root microbiome and plant ﬁtness Journal of Integrative Plant Biologywww.jipb.net February 2022 |Volume 64 |Issue 2 |230 –243 243 17447909, 2022, 2, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/jipb.13226 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [21/03/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License