Citation: White, R.E. The Role of SoilCarbon Sequestration as a ClimateChange Mitigation Strategy: AnAustralian Case Study. Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46. https://doi.org/10.3390/soilsystems6020046Academic Editor: Heike KnickerReceived: 30 March 2022Accepted: 6 May 2022Published: 9 May 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the author.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).ReviewThe Role of Soil Carbon Sequestration as a Climate ChangeMitigation Strategy: An Australian Case StudyRobert E. WhiteFaculty of Veterinary and Agricultural Sciences, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia;robertew@unimelb.edu.auAbstract: Soil carbon sequestration (SCS) is a key priority in the Australian government’s Long-TermEmissions Reduction Plan. Under the government’s Emission Reduction Fund (ERF), farmers areencouraged to change to a management practice that will increase their soil carbon (C) stock and earnAustralian Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs). The projections of net C abatement nationally range from17 to 103 Mt carbon dioxide equivalent annually up to 2050. This huge range reﬂects the uncertaintiesin achieving net SCS due to biophysical constraints, such as those imposed by the paucity andvariability of Australian rainfall and the difﬁculty of measuring small changes in soil C stock. Theuptake by farmers is also uncertain because of compliance costs, opportunity costs of a practicechange and the loss of business ﬂexibility when a farmer must commit to a 25-year permanenceperiod. Since the program’s inception in 2014, only one soil C project has been awarded ACCUs.Nevertheless, an increase in soil C is generally beneﬁcial for farm productivity. As a voluntary Cmarket evolves, the government is expecting that farmers will sell their ACCUs to businesses seekingto offset their greenhouse gas emissions. The risk is that, in buying cheap offsets, businesses will notthen invest in new energy-efﬁcient technologies to reduce their emissions at source.Keywords: soil carbon; sequestration; carbon credits; Emission Reduction Fund; farm productivity;climate mitigation1. IntroductionOver the past decade, agriculture has gone from sinner to saviour in the context ofglobal warming. For example, the World Bank [ 1] reported in 2012 that “Some 30 percentof global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are attributable to agriculture and deforesta-tion driven by the expansion of crop and livestock production for food, ﬁber and fuel.”However, an awareness of the potential of, and advocacy for, soils to sequester CO 2fromthe atmosphere has been gathering momentum, propelled by the proposal at the 21stConference of Parties (COP21) of the United Nations Framework Convention on ClimateChange (UNFCCC) for the soil carbon content (SOC) of soils globally to be increased by0.4% per annum (www.4p1000.org, accessed on 20 March 2022). The same World Bankreport hoped that, in the global debate about climate change mitigation, “the ‘triple win’of soil carbon sequestration for increased productivity, improved climate resilience, andenhanced mitigation” would become an integral part of the dialogue.The World Bank’s call has been taken up by various international consortia such asThe Adaptation of African Agriculture [ 2], Living Soils of the Americas [ 3] and AdvancingClimate Action in the Americas [ 4]. However, actual mechanisms by which land managerscan be rewarded for genuine GHG abatement through soil carbon sequestration (SCS)have been primarily the focus of government or private-sector action in North Americaand Australia. In these regions, schemes have been developed (see Table 1) whereby landmanagers are encouraged to implement practices to draw down CO 2from the atmosphereand store it in soil organic matter (SOM), described as a negative emissions strategy [ 5].For a deﬁned area of land, SCS represents the balance between the transfer of atmosphericSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46. https://doi.org/10.3390/soilsystems6020046 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/soilsystemsSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 2 of 13CO 2to soil through photosynthetic products, and carbon (C) losses primarily through soilrespiration [ 6]. When the balance favours C accretion (i.e., is positive), net SCS occurs,which is measured by sampling the soil to a speciﬁc depth, normally 0.3 m as recommendedby the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) [ 7], and measuring the soil Cconcentration and bulk density of the ﬁne soil mass (particles < 2 mm equivalent diameter,which excludes gravel). Bulk density is necessary because this property can change withtime under different soil managements. Because of this, estimates of the soil C stock overtime are best based on an equivalent soil mass [ 7], but are usually scaled up to a C contentper unit area (e.g., tonnes (t) per hectare (ha)).Plant product removal, soil erosion and leaching of dissolved organic C may alsodeplete the soil C stock, and this will be reﬂected in its measured value. However, thesuccess of SCS as a negative emissions strategy requires not only that net SCS be positive,but also that net SCS exceeds any increases in emissions of other GHGs that might occurduring the operation of the project [8]; that is, net C abatement occurs.Although the original COP21 proposal referred to an 0.4% increase in soil C inworld soils, it is clear from subsequent references [ 9] that the proposal was focused onagricultural soils and their management. As indicated above, implementation schemes(called protocols) for SCS are now available in several countries [ 6,10]. One of the longestrunning schemes is the Emission Reduction Fund (ERF) of the Australian government(www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/ERF, accessed on 20 March 2022), under which soil Cprojects are strongly promoted. If a project achieves genuine net abatement, the landholderis rewarded with Australian Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs). One ACCU is the equivalent ofone tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2-e) of net C abatement.This article discusses the soil C protocol of the ERF as a case study. The constraintsimposed by biophysical and environmental factors on the efﬁcacy of the protocol areexamined. The integrity of the scheme is evaluated in terms of the rigour of monitoring,reporting and veriﬁcation, the concepts of additionality, prevention of leakage, risk-of-reversal buffer and expectations for abatement outcomes. Income from ACCUs earned iscompared with compliance costs and the opportunity costs of changing land management.Socioeconomic inﬂuences on landholder uptake of projects are also discussed, togetherwith an assessment of the possible co-beneﬁts of successful SCS. A conclusion is reachedabout the true role of SCS in the plethora of approaches for the mitigation of climate change.Table 1. Examples of protocols for soil carbon sequestration recognized in the USA.ProtocolAdditionalityRequirementPermanencePeriodRisk-of-Reversal LeakageConsiders OtherGHGsClimate ActionReserveEnrichment v.1.0Yes, performanceand legalrequirement testsYes, 100 years ortonne-yearaccounting for ashorter periodPercentage ofcredits to a bufferpoolYes, fordisplacement oflivestock andlower crop yieldsYes, usesmodelling oremission factorsNori CroplandsMethodology v.1.1Yes, project mustshow increase inSCS over baseline10 yearsYes, restrictedtokens are used forany deliberatereversalsVerify if SOC gainscause lossesoutside of projectboundaryNoGold Standard SoilOrganic CMethodology v 1.0Yes, performanceand legalrequirement testsPermanencewithin creditingperiod (5–20 years)Yes, a percentageof credits go to abuffer poolYes, accounts forshifting cropproductionYes, modelling oremission factors ifemissions > 5% ofbaselineBCarbonCredits issued forC added afterinitial testing10 years,renewable aftercredits issued10% of credits to abuffer poolPotential leakageassessed by lifecycle analysisNoSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 3 of 13Table 1. Cont.ProtocolAdditionalityRequirementPermanencePeriodRisk-of-Reversal LeakageConsiders OtherGHGsRegen NetworkGrassland ProtocolYes, eligiblepractices must benew andadditional tobusiness-as-usual25 yearsYes, a percentageof credits to abuffer poolPotential sourcesof leakage trackedover timeYes, net emissionsaccounted forusing acceptedfactorsCarbon Credits—Measurement ofSCS inAgriculturalSystemsMethodologyYes, requires atleast one neweligiblemanagementactivity25 or 100 years,deduction of 20%of credits for25-year periodYes,risk-of-reversalbuffer of 5% ofcreditsYes, accounts fororganic materialsderived fromoutside the projectarea or newirrigation waterYes, emissionfactors used ifproject emissionsare greater thanthose of thebaselineAdapted from Appendix A of [10].2. Practical Implementation of a Soil Carbon Negative-Emission Strategy2.1. Additionality and LeakageFor effective net abatement to occur, business-as-usual is not acceptable—there mustbe a change in the land management practice so that, for a deﬁned area of land, net SCS isincreased. This embodies the concept of additionality. The basic function of the practicechange is to increase the supply of shoot residues (as litter or straw) and root material (asexudates and dead roots) that are deposited in the soil, and to minimize the rate at whichthese materials are decomposed by microorganisms. Furthermore, as soil C builds up inthe soil, its capacity to sequester C diminishes as mineral surfaces approach saturation andthe C compounds are less well protected from microorganisms [10].Consistent with many other protocols for SCS, the ERF identiﬁes a range of manage-ment practices that are eligible for a soil C project to be registered with the Clean EnergyRegulator (CER) (www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/ERF, accessed on 20 March 2022).These practices are listed in Box 1. A farmer needs to introduce one or more of thesepractices that is new or materially different from what was done in the project’s priorperiod. An eligible activity already being carried out does not need to cease: merely that anew or materially different activity must be added.Many of these activities, such as minimizing soil disturbance due to tillage, retentionof crop residues and crop diversiﬁcation, including cover cropping, are drawn from thepractices of conservation agriculture [ 11–14]. Others, such as the use of compost and ma-nures, are consistent with a tenet of regenerative agriculture, whereby synthetic fertilizersare replaced by organic materials such as compost and manure [ 15]. However, such asubstitution runs the risk of leakage, which describes the situation where sites from whichthe organic materials are derived suffer a loss of C inputs. In this case, there is no net gainin SCS for the landscape; or it can be that, with the removal of material from the site oforigin, an increase occurs in the release of other GHGs; or as a result of the removal, extraland is cleared for agriculture, which causes a net increase in emissions [16].Because of possible leakage, under the ERF soil C protocol, restrictions are imposedon the use of compost and manure (non-synthetic fertilizers (NSF)) and biochar. If thesematerials are obtained from outside the Carbon Estimation Area (CEA), the amounts arelimited to 100 kg C/ha/year: no quantity limits exist if they are derived from withinthe CEA or a designated waste stream. However, in the case of NSF, its C content mustbe deducted from the soil C stock when the latter is measured less than two years afterthe application of the NSF; after that period, it is assumed to have decomposed. Thisis not the case with biochar, which is resistant to decomposition, so that any biochar Cmust be deducted from any increase in soil C stock in calculating the net abatement [ 17].The rationale for these tortuous regulations seems to be that the added organic materialsshould stimulate the growth of crop or pasture through the supply of nitrogen (N) andSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 4 of 13phosphorus (P), and hence predispose to the deposition of more shoot and root residues inthe soil. Whether this leads consistently to an increase in SCS is currently debatable [18].Box 1. List of activities currently eligible to be registered as a soil C project with the CER. Applying nutrients to the land in the form of a synthetic or non-synthetic fertilizer to addressa material deﬁciency. For example, applying compost or manure; applying lime to remediateacid soils; applying gypsum to remediate sodic or magnesic soils. Undertaking new irrigation. Applying new or additional irrigation obtained through improv-ing the efﬁciency of on-farm irrigation infrastructure and/or management practices withinyour project area. Re-establishing or rejuvenating a pasture by seeding or pasture cropping. Re-establishing, and permanently maintaining, a pasture where there was previously no orlimited pasture, such as on cropland or bare fallow. Altering the stocking rate, duration, or intensity of grazing to promote soil vegetation coverand/or improve soil health. Retaining stubble after a crop is harvested. Converting from intensive tillage practices to reduced or no tillage practices. Modifying landscape or landform features to remediate land. For example, practices imple-mented for erosion control, surface water management, drainage/ﬂood control, or alleviatingsoil compaction. Practices may include controlled trafﬁc farming, deep ripping, water pondingor other means. Using mechanical means to add or redistribute soil through the soil proﬁle. For example, claydelving or clay spreading. Using legume species in cropping or pasture systems. Using cover crops to promote soil vegetation cover and/or improve soil health.2.2. Permanence and Risk of ReversalThe concept of using SCS as a net abatement strategy is predicated on the assumptionthat the extra soil C will be retained permanently. In practice, the UNFCCC has set thepermanence period at 100 years, being the same period for which the global warmingpotential of GHGs is calculated [10].Protocols offered by USA registries (some of which are international) are variable inthis requirement, with “permanence” periods as short as ﬁve years in the ﬁrst instance [ 10].Table 1 summarizes some of these protocols.The Australian ERF offers permanence periods of 25 or 100 years [ 17]. Becauselandholders commit to maintaining an approved practice for the duration of the perma-nence period, the shorter period offers more ﬂexibility in their business management (seeCosts and Beneﬁts below). However, there is a discount of 20% for ACCUs generatedin a 25-year project. According to the CER’s register, all soil C projects are for 25 years,which means that the net income derived from such projects is reduced by at least 20%(www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/ERF, accessed on 20 March 2022).Another consideration for a soil C project is the possible loss of stored C due tounpredictable environmental changes or singular events such as wildﬁres. Hence, in theERF, an extra 5% discount is applied to all ACCUs to provide a risk-of-reversal buffer forany such events.3. The Potential for Increasing Soil C SequestrationProjections for the Australian LandscapeFor an ERF soil C project, operating an approved management practice, the criticalissue is by how much can the rate of C inputs be increased relative to the rate of C losses.The main factors governing these input and output processes have been discussed by manyauthors [6,7,9,12,16,19].In the lead-up to COP26, the Australian government’s Long-Term Emissions ReductionPlan [ 20] (p. 55) identiﬁed soil C as one of the key low-emission strategies for attaining netzero by 2050. Soil carbon sequestration was envisaged as a mechanism by which emissionsSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 5 of 13from industry that were hard to reduce could be offset by SCS that provided genuinenet abatement. Soil C projects were estimated to have the potential to provide at least17 Mt CO 2-e of accredited offsets annually by 2050, in addition to CO 2drawn from theatmosphere without accreditation.As modelling for the Plan acknowledges [ 21] (p. 79), there is a wide range of estimatesfor SCS in Australian farmland, depending on assumptions about the effects of biophysicaland environmental factors over time, uptake rates by farmers and the costs relative tothe beneﬁts (see Costs and Beneﬁts below). For example, with advanced technology(unspeciﬁed) and an abatement incentive of AUD80 per t CO 2-e, SCS in Australian farmlandwas projected to account for 26 Mt CO 2-e annually to 2050. Previously, the ﬁrst LowEmissions Technology Statement (LETS) [ 22] (p. 23) referred to a Commonwealth Scientiﬁcand Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) review [ 23] that noted the potential for35–90 Mt CO 2-e per annum to be drawn down from the atmosphere through improvedmanagement of one quarter of Australia’s crop and grazing lands.Estimates of SCS made by some commercial aggregators are considerably higher. Forexample, Agriprove’s analysis, quoted in the Plan (agriprove.io), indicated that the potentialacross 36.58 Mha of cropping land and 28.95 Mha of grazing land (not including rangelandsreceiving <300 mm rainfall) could be at least 103 Mt CO 2-e annually [ 20] (p. 56 ). In anAustralian Broadcasting Corporation Science Show of 19 September 2020 [ 24], MatthewWarnken of Agriprove stated that some 30 Mha of pasture land would be suitable for“proving” the levels of SOC, delivering approximately 130 Mt of abatement each year.The data in Box 2.4 of the Plan [ 20] (p. 56) can be broken down to show the potentialrate of SCS according to the area of cropping and pasture land in each of ﬁve rainfall zones.The results are shown in Table 2.Table 2. Potential carbon sequestration in Australian cropping and pasture land according to rain-fall zones.Cropping Land Pasture LandRainfall(mm)Area(Mha)CO 2-e (Mt)per YearSCS(t/ha/year)Area(Mha)CO 2-e (Mt)per YearSCS(t/ha/year)300–600 28 22.40 0.22 8.375 12.562 0.41600–900 7.976 9.97 0.34 15.745 39.362 0.68900–1200 0.305 0.488 0.44 3.510 11.583 0.901200–1500 0.085 0.178 0.57 0.705 3.032 1.17>1500 0.210 0.472 0.61 0.615 2.768 1.23Adapted from Box 2.4 in the Long-Term Emissions Reduction Plan [20].Several points should be noted about the data in Table 2.1. For both cropping and pasture land, SCS is highly dependent on rainfall. This isprimarily because, the higher the rainfall, the more vegetation that can be grown, andhence the more root and shoot residues that can be deposited in the soil.2. For any rainfall range, the rate of SCS under pasture is approximately twice that ofcropping. There can be differences in the yield of vegetation, but the main factor is thelack of soil disturbance under pasture, especially permanent pasture, which meansthat the rate of C loss is reduced.3. The effect of rainfall notwithstanding, the potential for SCS is greatest in the 300–900 mmzone because of the greater area of cropping and pasture land in this zone. However,rainfall variability is also greater in the low rainfall zones of Australia, so that plantgrowth is more seasonally variable and annual increases in SCS are less certain there.4. The projections of SCS assume 100% uptake of soil C projects in the land areasidentiﬁed, which is unlikely to be achieved in practice.Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 6 of 134. Field Measurements of Soil Carbon Sequestration4.1. Technical and Financial ConsiderationsIn the ﬁeld, soil C content varies both spatially and temporally, which creates difﬁ-culties for measurement. Once an area of land is delineated (the CEA), soil cores must besampled to at least 0.3 m depth and the samples analyzed for the organic C concentration.At the same time, soil bulk densities must be measured so that the mean C content per unitvolume of equivalent soil mass (the C stock) can be calculated (gravel must be excluded).This is the baseline sampling round. A second round of soil sampling for analysis must beundertaken within ﬁve years so that the change in soil C stock can be estimated.Smith et al. [ 7] suggested that, under some land managements, sampling to more than0.3 m may be necessary to accurately measure C change in the soil proﬁle. For example,under no-till farming, a decrease in soil C at depth may counterbalance an increase insoil C within the top 0.3 m [ 25]. Although the Food and Agriculture Organization hasrecommended sampling to 1 m [ 7], this requires specialized equipment and makes themeasurement of soil C change prohibitively expensive [10].The effect of spatial variability on the precision of each soil C mean can be reducedby increasing the number of samples taken in the CEA. For example, for a 50-ha ﬁeld,Oldﬁeld et al. [10] calculated the number of independent samples needed to estimate with95% certainty a change of 0.05% in mean soil C concentration over 5 years (correspondingto a sequestration rate of 0.3 t C/ha/year to 0.3 m depth in a soil of bulk density 1 Mg/m3).For ﬁeld variabilities ranging from 0.3 to 0.7 standard deviations, the number of samplesrequired ranged from 12 to 62 per ha. The effect of spatial variability, which may beexacerbated by seasonal changes from year to year, can be moderated to an extent byensuring that samples are taken at the same time each year. However, the samplingintensity required for a 95% level of certainty remains high, so the ERF sets the conﬁdencelevel for accepting a signiﬁcant difference between means at 60% [26].More intensive soil sampling incurs greater costs. For example, for a 68ha croppingﬁeld in central-west New South Wales (NSW), Singh et al. [ 27] reported an all-in costof AUD37/ha (in 2011 dollars) to measure the soil C stock (to 0.3 m) with a standarderror2 t/ha. Under its Technology Investment Roadmap [ 22] (p. 24), the Australiangovernment proposed the ambitious “stretch goal” of reducing the cost of measurement toAUD3/ha. Hence, much effort has been devoted to developing techniques that are cheaper,with an acceptable degree of precision, such as near- and mid-infrared spectroscopy [ 7,28].However, such methods require calibration against soil C concentrations measured bydry-combustion analysis. Other methods, the so-called hybrid methods, seek to reducethe cost of monitoring by coupling direct measurements of soil C with a model of soil Cdynamics, as advocated by Powlson and Neal [29].A new ERF protocol, released at the end of 2021 [ 26], involves using less frequentsoil sampling and measurements that are used to check the output of a C model. Otherapproaches involve the use of remote sensing, in particular, spectral bands [ 7,30]. Sucha method may have some application for bare soil, but not vegetated land, other thanfor estimating above-ground plant biomass, which may provide an input variable to asoil C model. Prior remote sensing may also be helpful in determining the most effectiveselection of sites for soil sampling. Oldﬁeld et al. [ 10] discuss some of the limitations ofthese “advanced” technologies.4.2. Examples of Field Measurements of SCS in AustraliaConverting cropland to permanent pasture is one of the most promising, eligiblechanges in land management under the ERF (see Box 1). For example, Badgery et al. [ 31]reported on trials on farms in the Cowra Trough, central-west NSW (rainfall 673 mm).Farms were selected on the basis of the soil C increase predicted from a Soil CarbonCalculation Tool [ 32] when the farmers changed their management in accordance with ERFrequirements. Soil C stock was measured in 2012 according to the ERF protocol (baselineSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 7 of 13sampling) and again in 2017. Table 3 gives the results for ﬁve farms where the managementchange was from cropping to pasture without organic amendments.Table 3. Changes in soil carbon stock after a change from cropping to pasture in a 5-year on-farmtrial in the Cowra Trough, NSW [31].Farm Identiﬁer (AllFarms > 200 ha)Initial Soil C Stock(t C/ha to 30 cm)Predicted Change inSoil C Stock(t C/ha/year)Measured Change inSoil C Stock(t C/ha/year)1LA0690 27.1 0.41 1.01 0.16LA0700 28.2 0.3 0.58 0.43LA0725 31.9 0.2 0.78 0.29LA0934 20.9 0.5 1.13 0.16LA0734 28.6 0.3 1.33 0.18Means 27.3 0.34 0.971Mean and standard error derived from a minimum of 10 composite samples according to a stratified random design.The following points should be noted. The initial soil C stocks were low, which increased the likelihood of a faster ini-tial rate of C accumulation when management was changed [ 33]. Similarly, Doran-Browne et al. [ 34] reported a signiﬁcant potential to sequester C in a degraded soilwhen management was changed. There was considerable variation in the measured means for soil C change, reﬂectingthe spatial variability of soil C in the ﬁeld. The mean increase in soil C stock over the ﬁrst ﬁve years of 0.97 t C/ha/year is atthe upper end of expectations. A previous survey of farm paddocks converted fromcropping to pasture in the region found an average increase of 0.78 t C/ha/year overﬁve years [35]. The rate of soil C increase is likely to slow with time as the soil approaches a newsteady-state equilibrium [ 19]. For example, in a similar region of NSW, but forlonger term trials of 13 and 25 years, Chan et al. [ 36] reported increases of 0.40 and0.26 t C/ha/year, respectively.Other results from Chan et al. [ 36] are relevant to another of the eligible practices(see Box 1). For the mixed farming belt of central-west NSW, these authors found that im-proved soil nutrient inputs and grazing management could lead to increases of0.5–0.7 t C/ha/year . They added the proviso that the initial soil C levels should be wellbelow the steady-state contents that would be expected after such improved manage-ment. Similarly, for crop-pasture rotations with stubble retention under annual rainfall of330–700 mm in Victoria, Robertson and Nash [ 37] projected increases in the soil C storeof 0.3–0.9 t C/ha/year over 25 years; but they cautioned that such increases could take10–25 years to be measured with certainty.The above measurements and estimates of the rate of SCS under Australian conditionsare consistent with the range of 0.3–0.6 t C/ha/year reported by Sanderman et al. [ 23].However, the only soil C project that has been awarded ACCUs by the CER has recordedmuch higher values. This project was based on a renovated pasture on a 100-ha ﬁeldof a farm in West Gippsland, Victoria, which receives an annual rainfall of 1000 mm(www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/ERF, accessed on 24 March 2022). Within the ﬁrstﬁve years of the project, 1904 ACCUs were awarded, which, allowing for a combined25% discount for its 25-year permanence period and risk-of-reversal buffer, amounted to anet 25.39 t CO 2-e/ha sequestered over two years, or an average rate of 3.46 t C/ha/year(the change in other GHG emissions was negligible). Note that this value is much higherthan the potential value of 0.9 t C/ha/year given for the 900–1200 mm rainfall zone inTable 2. Up to April 2022, no additional ACCUs had been recorded, and the reasons forthis exceptional result remain unexplained.Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 8 of 134.3. Monitoring, Reporting and Veriﬁcation (MRV)Currently, the ERF requirements for monitoring soil C are based on measurements ofsoil C stock to at least 0.3 m depth. A qualified technician must carry out the sampling andthe C analyses done in an approved laboratory. A previous version of the protocol allowedestimates of soil C change to be obtained from FullCAM modelling [ 38]. However, the modelestimates were conservative and were not at a high spatial resolution, so few projects wereregistered under this protocol. In the recently released 2021 protocol, a hybrid modelling-soilsampling method is available. This still requires rigorous baseline sampling, but the frequencyof further sampling and soil analysis can be reduced to once every 10 years.All the registered soil C projects have chosen a 25-year permanence period during whicha report must be submitted to the CER at least once every five years. The project results needto be independently audited three times during the crediting period of 25 years.Smith et al. [ 7] acknowledged that there is much variation in the capacity of differentC credit protocols globally to apply rigorous MRV . However, because of their strict MRV ,ACCUs so far are recognized to be of high integrity [10].5. Costs and Beneﬁts of a Soil C ProjectAs indicated above, there are signiﬁcant compliance costs involved in a soil C project.These include the cost of an areal survey to delineate a CEA, baseline sampling, soil Canalysis and bulk density measurement, data collection and analysis to estimate changesin all GHG emissions over time, report preparation and auditing. If CEAs are large, orsmall CEAs are aggregated, these costs can be reduced on a per ha basis. The Australiangovernment is offering a AUD5000 advance payment per project to help defray start-upcosts. Because of the method’s complexity, several commercial aggregators offer a start-up and management service. To cover the initial survey, soil sampling and analysis, thestart-up cost can be as high as AUD5000 for farm properties <1000 ha, but lower for largerproperties. The on-going service fee, which may cover subsequent measurement, reportingand auditing, can amount to 30% per ACCU (Professor R. Eckard, personal communication).However, as White et al. [ 8] showed, the major potential cost is the opportunity costof changing land management, measured as the change in gross margin of the farmingbusiness from before to after the change. The decreased gross margin was especiallymarked in changing from dryland cropping to grazing livestock, based on data for grossmargins from the NSW Department of Agriculture (reported in White and Davidson [ 39],adjusted from Australian Bureau of Agricultural and Resource Economics and Sciencessurvey data in Agricultural Outlook —Department of Agriculture). A sensitivity analysisrevealed little effect of a 50% reduction in sampling and analysis costs, or a 50% increasein the value of an ACCU, or a 100% increase in the rate of SCS. Clearly, the result of thisanalysis will also depend on input costs relative to the value of products, a relativity thatcan change with time. In this context, a halving of the crop yield or a doubling of livestockyield per ha could produce a positive change in gross margin.Co-BeneﬁtsSoil carbon sequestration is usually promoted as a win:win strategy [ 9]. Under theERF, C credits are expected to provide extra farm income, while the increase in SOM willimprove the soil condition and farm productivity. For productivity and proﬁtability to beachieved, not only does the overall beneﬁt/cost ratio of the management change need to befavourable, but the farmer also needs the skills to implement the new practice successfully.In some instances, this may be a deterrent to change. Furthermore, as Janzen [ 40] haspointed out, there is a paradox in the objectives of achieving optimum sequestrationand productivity outcomes. On the one hand, sequestration is most effective when Caccumulates in recalcitrant compounds that decompose only very slowly, that is, it isconsidered permanent. On the other hand, added C residues are most effective in improvingsoil condition and promoting plant growth when the residues decompose quickly, soilmicrobial activity is stimulated, and essential elements such as N, P and sulfur (S) areSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 9 of 13recycled [ 29]. Even so, there is a current hypothesis that the necromass from stimulatedmicrobial activity leads to enhanced mineral stabilization of soil C compounds [ 41,42];however, Craig et al. [ 43] found that microbial growth and turnover were negativelycorrelated with the formation of mineral-stabilized SOC in six forest soils of the easternUSA. The necromass hypothesis is often linked to the concept that below-ground inputsof C are more effective in increasing SCS than above-ground inputs [ 15]. Conﬁrming thisconcept requires more reliable estimates of root C inputs, which in cropland at least arerelatively small [44], so Janzen’s original paradox is yet to be resolved.In existing soil C protocols, the concept of permanence is not ﬁxed (see Table 1), sothe effectiveness of sequestration is not assessed: only that soil C stock must increase overtime [ 17]. However, increases in soil C that lead to improved soil condition are readilymeasured by the resultant increase in crop productivity. As Meyer et al. [ 33] demonstrated,the increased productivity can be measured in monetary value that in many cases exceedsany income from C credits.Other beneﬁts claimed for increased soil C are for ecosystem services and biodiversity.Kopittke et al. [ 45] stated that soils play a critical role in multiple ecosystems servicesthrough regulation of the global C pool. On a more modest scale, improved soil structurefrom increased SOM is one example of an ecosystem service beneﬁt provided throughbetter inﬁltration of rainfall, resulting in less runoff that produces surface erosion and soilloss—the water quality in receiving waterways should therefore be improved. This is morea public beneﬁt than a private beneﬁt and is difﬁcult to quantify.Biodiversity, like sustainability, is an omnibus term that has been applied widely.For example, Kopittke et al. [ 45] stated that soils are the most biologically diverse habitaton earth. While there is a broad correlation between SOM status and soil biologicaldiversity [ 46], Kopittke et al. [ 45] acknowledged that the linkages between measures ofbiodiversity and speciﬁc soil functions are yet to be elucidated. Nevertheless, under theAustralian government’s pilot Carbon + Biodiversity program (Carbon + BiodiversityPilot agriculture.gov.au), an improvement in soil condition could provide an indirect, butmeasurable, biodiversity beneﬁt. This program is focused on farmers planting nativetree species on degraded, unproductive land or productive land that can be improvedby targeted tree planting. The biodiversity beneﬁt will come from the tree plantation,the growth of which will also be eligible for C credits. However, there is an underlyingexpectation that the degraded soil will be improved under the trees, and it is possible thatthis new method may join others listed in Box 1 to be eligible for earning soil C credits.Another co-beneﬁt sometimes cited is better risk management—that with increasedSOM, crops are less likely to be affected by adverse conditions. Such a beneﬁt should beexpressed through farm productivity, as noted above.6. Abatement of National EmissionsAs indicated in Section 4.2, SCS has made a negligible contribution to offsetting thenational GHG emissions. However, the Australian government’s Long-Term EmissionsReduction Plan [ 20] projects that, by 2050, SCS could be providing between 17 and 103 MtCO 2-e per year of abatement nationally. This huge range in projections reﬂects the factthat the uptake rate of the 2021 soil C protocol and the success of participants in seques-tering signiﬁcant amounts of C are uncertain, given the known biophysical, climatic andsocioeconomic constraints that exist. As pointed out by several authors in different coun-tries [ 8,16,47–49], the enthusiastic advocacy, especially in Australia, for SCS as a climatemitigation strategy ignores this uncertainty. There is the consequent risk that businessesunder pressure to reduce their GHG emissions will choose to offset those emissions bybuying relatively cheap C credits, rather than invest in new, energy-efﬁcient, emission-reducing technologies. The latter point is highlighted in a recent CSIRO report [ 50] onclimate-related risk scenarios and how these might inﬂuence future investment decisions inAustralia. For example, a scenario whereby transition actions are delayed up to 2030 resultsin a high reliance on negative emission technologies, rising to 9000 Mt CO 2-e, to achieveSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 10 of 13net zero by 2050. This is potentially unattainable, given that, from 31 December 2012 to13 April 2022, only 109 million ACCUs for all ERF protocols had been issued (i.e., 109 Mtof abatement achieved), of which 77 Mt were delivered under government ﬁxed contract(www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/erf, accessed on 24 April 2022).7. Financial OutcomesThe Long-Term Emissions Reduction Plan [ 20] (p. 55) suggested that Australianfarmers could earn AUD400 million from the sale of soil C credits in 2050. Taking the Plan’smodest estimate of annual abatement at 17 Mt CO 2-e by 2050 (see above), this impliesan average ACCU price of AUD23.53. Farmers with a soil C project may enter into acontract through a twice-yearly reverse auction to sell their ACCUs to the CER at a ﬁxedprice, currently AUD17.35 per unit. Alternatively, farmers may decide to sell all or part oftheir units on the voluntary or secondary market, where the price is higher but ﬂuctuatesmarkedly according to supply and demand (recently between AUD29 and AUD57 per unit(www.reputex.com, accessed on 24 April 2022)). Because of this differential in price, theAustralian government is now allowing farmers, who were contracted to the CER, to sellall their credits on the voluntary market. Taking advantage of this change, commercialfacilitators are encouraging more farmers to engage in a soil C project, but the biophysicaland ﬁnancial constraints identiﬁed above remain.When ACCUs are sold to the government under contract, they are “retired”, but cancount towards the farm’s attaining C neutrality. Although a farmer may achieve a higherprice on the more volatile voluntary market, the ACCUs sold there become the propertyof the buyer and cannot count towards the farm’s C neutrality. Several internationalcompanies also offer soil C credits in Australia. However, these credits, although possiblyof higher value than ACCUs, are of variable integrity [ 10]. Moreover, if credits are soldoverseas, they cannot be counted as offsets in the national GHG inventory.8. Conclusions—A Take-Home MessageAustralia’s approach to achieving net zero emissions by 2050 is based on “technologynot taxes” [ 20] (p. 11). The ﬁrst LETS [ 22] (p. 6) identiﬁed ﬁve key priorities, one of whichwas soil C. The mechanism for implementing SCS is through the Carbon Farming Initiativeof the ERF. Since its inception in 2014, soil C projects have been singularly unsuccessful inproviding C credits, with only one project receiving ACCUs in 2018–2020. Even this resultis questionable, because the imputed rate of SCS is more than three times greater than thatexpected for pasture under a 1000 mm rainfall.A key priority is to reduce the cost of soil C measurement to less than AUD3/ha,such as through remote sensing technology backed up by modelling and less frequent soilsampling. However, as Oldﬁeld et al. [ 10] pointed out, remote sensing technologies havenot yet been shown to work on vegetated land, nor are they able to measure soil C down to0.3 m. Further research is required to achieve this goal without compromising the integrityof the C credits.Notwithstanding the government’s priority, the main barriers to greater uptake of soilprojects are the opportunity costs associated with a change in management practice [ 8],the inﬂexibility for a farm business of commitment to a permanence period of at least25 years [ 51], and the uncertainty of achieving a signiﬁcant increase in soil C stock andmaintaining it, given the variability of Australia’s climate [ 37]. The last point is underscoredby the need to grow large amounts of plant biomass (requiring substantial inputs of majornutrients such as N), which then provide the residues to power SCS [ 49]. Nevertheless, asdemonstrated by Meyer et al. [ 33], there are considerable productivity gains to be madefrom increasing SOM, which are most readily achieved on degraded soils [ 34], providedclimatic conditions are suitable.Ultimately, as indicated in Section 6, the focus on delivering soil C credits, rather thanon farm productivity gains, could have the most undesirable effect of diverting businessesSoil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 11 of 13in the mining, manufacturing and transport industries from taking real measures to reducetheir own emissions.Funding: This research received no external funding.Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: As indicated in the references.Acknowledgments: To B. Henry, Queensland University of Technology, G. Shea, Department ofPrimary Industries and Regional Development, Western Australia, and A. Cass, Alfred Cass andAssociates, Washington, USA, for valuable comments.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.AbbreviationsACCU Australian Carbon Credit UnitCEA Carbon Estimation AreaCER Clean Energy RegulatorCOP Conference of PartiesCSIRO Commonwealth Scientiﬁc and Industrial Research OrganizationERF Emissions Reduction FundGHG Greenhouse GasIPCC Intergovernmental Panel for Climate ChangeLETS Low Emissions Technology StatementMRV Monitoring, Reporting and VeriﬁcationNSF Non-Synthetic FertilizerNSW New South WalesSOC Soil Organic CarbonSCS Soil Carbon SequestrationSOM Soil Organic MatterUNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate ChangeUSA United States of AmericaReferences1. World Bank. Carbon Sequestration in Agricultural Soils ; Report Number: 67395-GLB; Agriculture and Rural Development; TheWorld Bank: Washington, DC, USA, 2012.2. Adapting African Agriculture to Climate Change: 2014. Available online: https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-319-13000-2 (accessed on 12 October 2020).3. Living Soils in the Americas. Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture. Available online: https://iica.int/en/press/events/living-soils-americas (accessed on 12 October 2020).4. United States Department of State. Advancing Climate Action in the Americas ; United States Department of State: Washington, DC,USA, 2021.5. Paustian, K.; Larson, E.; Kent, J.; Marx, E.; Swan, A. Soil C sequestration as a biological negative emissions strategy. Front. Clim.2019 ,1, 8. [CrossRef]6. Henderson, B.; Lankoski, J.; Flynn, E.; Sykes, A.; Payen, F.; MacLeod, M. Soil Carbon Sequestration by Agriculture: Policy Options ;OECD Food Agriculture and Fisheries Paper no. 174; OECD Trade and Agriculture Directorate: Paris, France, 2022.7. Smith, P .; Soussana, J.-F.; Angers, D.; Schipper, L.; Chenu, C.; Rasse, D.P .; Batjes, N.H.; van Egmond, F.; McNeill, S.; Kuhnert, M.;et al. How to measure, report and verify soil carbon change to realize the potential of soil carbon sequestration for atmosphericgreenhouse gas removal. Glob. Change Biol. 2020 ,26, 219–241. [CrossRef] [PubMed]8. White, R.E.; Davidson, B.; Eckard, R. An Everyman’s Guide for a Landholder to Participate in Soil Carbon Farming in Australia ;Occasional Paper no. 21.01; Australian Farm Institute: Sydney, Australia, 2021.9. Soussana, J.-F.; Lutfalla, S.; Ehrhardt, F.; Rosenstock, T.; Lamanna, C.; Havl ík, P .; Richards, M.; Wollenberg, E.; Chotte, J.-L.;Torquebiau, E.; et al. Matching policy and science: Rationale for the ‘4 per 1000—Soils for food security and climate’ initiative.Soil Tillage Res. 2019 ,188, 3–15. [CrossRef]10. Oldﬁeld, E.E.; Eagle, A.J.; Rubin, R.L.; Rudek, J.; Sanderman, J.; Gordon, D.R. Agricultural Soil Carbon Credits: Making Sense ofProtocols for Carbon Sequestration and Net Greenhouse Gas Removals ; Environmental Defense Fund: New York, NY, USA, 2022.Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 12 of 1311. Franzluebbers, A.J. Achieving soil organic carbon sequestration with conservation agricultural systems in the southeasternUnited States. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J. 2010 ,74, 347–357. [CrossRef]12. Powlson, D.S.; Bhogal, A.; Chambers, B.J.; Coleman, K.; Macdonald, A.J.; Goulding, K.W.T.; Whitmore, A.P . The potential toincrease soil carbon stocks through reduced tillage or organic material additions in England and Wales: A case study. Agric.Ecosyst. Environ. 2012 ,146, 23–33. [CrossRef]13. Powlson, D.S.; Stirling, C.M.; Thierfelder, C.; White, R.P .; Jat, M.L. Does conservation agriculture deliver climate change mitigationthrough soil carbon sequestration in tropical agro-ecosystems? Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2016 ,220, 164–174. [CrossRef]14. Page, K.L.; Dang, Y.P .; Dalal, R.C. The ability of conservation agriculture to conserve soil organic carbon and the subsequentimpact on soil physical, chemical, and biological properties and yield. Front. Sustain. Food Syst. 2020 ,4, 31. [CrossRef]15. Prescott, C.E.; Rui, Y.; Cotrufo, M.F.; Grayson, S.J. Managing plant surplus carbon to generate soil organic matter in regenerativeagriculture. J. Soil Water Conserv. 2021 ,76, 99A–103A. [CrossRef]16. Powlson, D.S.; Whitmore, A.P .; Goulding, K.W.T. Soil carbon sequestration to mitigate climate change: A critical re-examinationto identify the true and the false. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2011 ,62, 42–55. [CrossRef]17. Emissions Reduction Fund. Understanding Your Soil Carbon Project ; Clean Energy Regulator, Commonwealth of Australia:Canberra, Australia, 2020.18. Chenu, C.; Angers, D.A.; Barr é, P .; Derrien, D.; Arrouays, D.; Balesdent, J. Increasing organic stocks in agricultural soils:Knowledge gaps and potential innovations. Soil Tillage Res. 2019 ,188, 41–52. [CrossRef]19. Johnston, A.E.; Poulton, P .R.; Coleman, K. Soil Organic Matter: Its Importance in Sustainable Agriculture and Carbon DioxideFluxes. In Advances in Agronomy ; Sparks, D.L., Ed.; Academic Press: Burlington, VT, USA, 2009; Volume 101, pp. 1–57.20. Commonwealth of Australia. Australia’s Whole-of-Economy Long-Term Emissions Reduction Plan ; Australian Government Depart-ment of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources: Canberra, Australia, 2021.21. Commonwealth of Australia. Australia’s Long-Term Emissions Reduction Plan: Modelling and Analysis ; Australian GovernmentDepartment of Industry, Science, Energy and Resources: Canberra, Australia, 2021.22. Technology Investment Roadmap. First Low Emissions Technology Statement—2020 ; Australian Government Department ofIndustry, Science, Energy and Resources: Canberra, Australia, 2020.23. Sanderman, J.; Farquharson, R.; Baldock, J. Soil Carbon Sequestration Potential: A Review for Australian Agriculture ; Department ofClimate Change and Energy Efﬁciency, Australian Government: Canberra, Australia, 2010.24. Williams, R. The Science Show, Australian Broadcasting Commission. 2020. Available online: https://www.abc.net.au/radionational/programs/scienceshow/how-to-wipeout-a-third-of-our-CO2-emissions-the-answer:-%E2%80%9Clies/12678654 (accessed on 12 October 2020).25. Blanco-Canqui, H.; Rattan Lal, R. No-tillage and soil-proﬁle carbon sequestration: An on-farm assessment. Soil Sci. Soc. Am. J.2008 ,72, 693–701. [CrossRef]26. Carbon Credits. Carbon Farming Initiative—Estimation of Soil Organic Carbon Sequestration Using Measurement and Models MethodologyDetermination 2021 ; Commonwealth of Australia: Canberra, Australia, 2021.27. Singh, K.; Murphy, B.W.; Marchant, B.P . Towards cost-effective estimation of soil carbon stocks at the ﬁeld scale. Soil Res. 2012 ,50,672–684. [CrossRef]28. Viscarra Rossel, R.A.; Brus, D.; Lobsey, C.; Shi, Z.; McLachlan, G. Baseline 745 estimates of soil organic carbon by proximalsensing: Comparing design-based, 746 model-assisted and model-based inference. Geoderma 2016 ,265, 152–163. [CrossRef]29. Powlson, D.S.; Neal, A.L. Inﬂuence of organic matter on soil properties: By how much can organic carbon be increased in arablesoils and can changes be measured? Proc. Int. Fertil. Soc. 2021 ,862, 2–29.30. Kunkel, V .R.; Wells, T.; Hancock, G.R. Modelling soil organic carbon using vegetation indices across large catchments in easternAustralia. Sci. Total Environ. 2022 ,817, 152690. [CrossRef]31. Badgery, W.; Murphy, B.; Cowie, A.; Orgill, S.; Rawson, A.; Simmons, A.; Crean, J. Soil carbon market-based instrument pilot—thesequestration of soil organic carbon for the purpose of obtaining carbon credits. Soil Res. 2020 ,59, 12–23. [CrossRef]32. Murphy, B.; Rawson, A.; Badgery, W.; Crean, J.; Pearson, L.; Simmons, A.; Andersson, K.; Warden, E.; Lorimer-Ward, K. Soilcarbon science to support a scheme for the payment of changes in soil carbon—Lessons and experiences from the CAMBI pilotscheme. In Proceedings of the 5th Joint Australia and New Zealand Soil Science Conference, Hobart, Tasmania, 2–7 December2012; Burkitt, L., Sparrow, L., Eds.; Australian Society of Soil Science Incorporated: Hobart, Tasmania, 2012; pp. 255–258.33. Meyer, R.; Cullen, B.R.; Johnson, I.R.; Eckard, R.J. Process modelling to assess the sequestration and productivity beneﬁts of soilcarbon for pasture. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2015 ,213, 272–280. [CrossRef]34. Doran-Browne, N.A.; Ive, J.; Graham, P .; Eckard, R.J. Carbon-neutral wool farming in south-eastern Australia. Anim. Prod. Sci.2016 ,56, 417–422. [CrossRef]35. Badgery, W.B.; Simmons, A.T.; Murphy, B.W.; Rawson, A.; Andersson, K.O.; Lonergan, V .E. The inﬂuence of land use andmanagement on soil carbon levels for crop-pasture systems in Central New South Wales, Australia. Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2014 ,196, 147–157. [CrossRef]36. Chan, K.Y.; Conyers, M.K.; Li, G.D.; Helyar, K.R.; Poile, G.; Oates, A.; Barchia, I.M. Soil carbon dynamics under different croppingand pasture management in temperate Australia: Results of three long-term experiments. Soil Res. 2011 ,49, 320–328. [CrossRef]37. Robertson, F.; Nash, D. Limited potential for soil carbon accumulation using current cropping practices in Victoria, Australia.Agric. Ecosyst. Environ. 2013 ,165, 130–140. [CrossRef]Soil Syst. 2022 ,6, 46 13 of 1338. Richards, G.P .; Evans, D.M.W. Development of a carbon accounting model (FullCAM Vers. 1.0) for the Australian continent. Aust.For. 2004 ,67, 277–283. [CrossRef]39. White, R.; Davidson, B. The costs and beneﬁts of approved methods for sequestering carbon in soil through the Australiangovernment’s Emissions Reduction Fund. Environ. Nat. Resour. Res. 2016 ,6, 99–109. [CrossRef]40. Janzen, H.H. The soil carbon dilemma: Shall we hoard it or use it? Soil Biol. Biochem. 2006 ,38, 419–424. [CrossRef]41. Miltner, A.; Bombach, P .; Schmidt-Brücken, B.; Kästner, M. SOM genesis: Microbial biomass as a signiﬁcant source. Biogeochemistry2012 ,111, 41–55. [CrossRef]42. Cotrufo, M.F.; Wallenstein, M.D.; Boot, C.M.; Denef, K.; Paul, E. The Microbial Efﬁciency-Matrix Stabilization (MEMS) frameworkintegrates plant litter decomposition with soil organic matter stabilization: Do labile plant inputs form stable soil organic matter?Glob. Change Biol. 2013 ,19, 988–995. [CrossRef]43. Craig, M.E.; Geyer, K.M.; Beidler, K.V .; Brzostek, E.R.; Frey, S.D.; Grandy, A.S.; Liang, C.; Phillips, R.P . Fast-decaying plant litterenhances soil carbon in temperate forests but not through microbial physiological traits. Nat. Commun. 2022 ,13, 1229. [CrossRef]44. Janzen, H.H.; van Groenigen, K.J.; Powlson, D.S.; Schwinghamer, T.; van Groenigen, J.W. Photosynthetic limits on carbonsequestration in croplands. Geoderma 2022 ,416, 115810. [CrossRef]45. Kopittke, P .M.; Berhe, A.A.; Carrillo, Y.; Cavagnaro, T.R.; Chen, D.; Chen, Q.-L.; Dobarco, M.R.; Dijkstra, F.A.; Field, D.J.;Grundy, M.J.; et al. Ensuring planetary survival: The centrality of organic carbon in balancing the multifunctional nature of soils.Crit. Rev. Environ. Sci. Technol. 2022 . [CrossRef]46. Vazquez, C.; de Goede, R.G.M.; Rutgers, M.; de Koeijer, T.J.; Creamer, R.E. Assessing multifunctionality of agricultural soils:Reducing the biodiversity trade-off. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2021 ,72, 1624–1639. [CrossRef]47. Baldock, J.A.; Sanderman, J.; Farquharson, R. Capturing carbon in Australian soils: Potential and realities. In Soil Solutions for aChanging World ; 19th World Congress of Soil Science; Australian Society of Soil Science Inc.: Brisbane, Australia, 2010.48. Schlesinger, W.H.; Amundson, R. Managing for soil carbon sequestration: Let’s get realistic. Glob. Change Biol. 2019 ,25, 386–389.[CrossRef] [PubMed]49. Berthelin, J.; Laba, M.; Lemaire, G.; Powlson, D.; Tessier, D.; Wander, M.; Baveye, P .C. Soil carbon sequestration for climate changemitigation: Mineralization kinetics of organic inputs as an overlooked limitation. Eur. J. Soil Sci. 2022 ,73, e13221. [CrossRef]50. Whitten, S.; Verikios, G.; Kitsios, V .; Mason-D’Croz, D.; Cook, S.; Holt, P . Exploring Climate Risk in Australia: The EconomicImplications of a Delayed Transition to Net Zero Emissions ; CSIRO: Canberra, Australia, 2021.51. Thamo, T.; Pannell, D.J.; Kragt, M.E.; Robertson, M.J.; Polyakov, M. Dynamics and economics of carbon sequestration: Commonoversights and their implications. Mitig. Adapt. Strateg. Glob. Change 2017 ,22, 1095–1111. [CrossRef]