fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 1REVIEWpublished: 06 July 2022doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.919166Edited by:Muhammad Azhar Nadeem,Sivas University of Scienceand Technology, TurkeyReviewed by:Monica Calvo-Polanco,University of Salamanca, SpainTianxu Cao,Yangtze Normal University, ChinaAhmad Sher,Bahauddin Zakariya University,Pakistan*Correspondence:Jianqun Miaojqmiao998@sina.comYing Liuly39661026@126.comSpecialty section:This article was submitted toCrop and Product Physiology,a section of the journalFrontiers in Plant ScienceReceived: 13 April 2022Accepted: 09 May 2022Published: 06 July 2022Citation:Tang H, Hassan MU, Feng L,Nawaz M, Shah AN, Qari SH, Liu Yand Miao J (2022) The Critical Roleof Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungito Improve Drought Toleranceand Nitrogen Use Efﬁciency in Crops.Front. Plant Sci. 13:919166.doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.919166The Critical Role of ArbuscularMycorrhizal Fungi to ImproveDrought Tolerance and Nitrogen UseEfﬁciency in CropsHaiying Tang1, Muhammad Umair Hassan2, Liang Feng3,4, Muhammad Nawaz5,Adnan Noor Shah5, Sameer H. Qari6, Ying Liu1*and Jianqun Miao7*1College of Agriculture and Biotechnology, Hunan University of Humanities, Science and Technology, Loudi, China,2Research Center on Ecological Sciences, Jiangxi Agricultural University, Nanchang, China,3College of Agronomy, SichuanAgricultural University, Chengdu, China,4Sichuan Engineering Research Center for Crop Strip Intercropping System, KeyLaboratory of Crop Eco-physiology and Farming System in Southwest, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, Chengdu,China,5Department of Agricultural Engineering, Khwaja Fareed University of Engineering and Information Technology, RahimYar Khan, Pakistan,6Department of Biology, Al-Jumum University College, Umm Al-Qura University, Makkah, Saudi Arabia,7School of Computer Information and Engineering, Jiangxi Agricultural University, Nanchang, ChinaDrought stress (DS) is a serious abiotic stress and a major concern across the globeas its intensity is continuously climbing. Therefore, it is direly needed to developnew management strategies to mitigate the adverse effects of DS to ensure bettercrop productivity and food security. The use of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF)has emerged as an important approach in recent years to improve crop productivityunder DS conditions. AMF establishes a relationship with 80% of land plants and itinduces pronounced impacts on plant growth and provides protection to plants fromabiotic stress. Drought stress signiﬁcantly reduces plant growth and development byinducing oxidative stress, disturbing membrane integrity, plant water relations, nutrientuptake, photosynthetic activity, photosynthetic apparatus, and anti-oxidant activities.However, AMF can signiﬁcantly improve the plant tolerance against DS. AMF maintainsmembrane integrity, improves plant water contents, nutrient and water uptake, andwater use efﬁciency (WUE) therefore, improve the plant growth under DS. Moreover,AMF also protects the photosynthetic apparatus from drought-induced oxidative stressand improves photosynthetic efﬁciency, osmolytes, phenols and hormone accumulation,and reduces the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by increasing anti-oxidant activities and gene expression which provide the tolerance to plants againstDS. Therefore, it is imperative to understand the role of AMF in plants grown under DS.This review presented the different functions of AMF in different responses of plantsunder DS. We have provided a detailed picture of the different mechanisms mediatedby AMF to induce drought tolerance in plants. Moreover, we also identiﬁed the potentialresearch gaps that must be fulﬁlled for a promising future for AMF. Lastly, nitrogen (N) isan important nutrient needed for plant growth and development, however, the efﬁciencyof applied N fertilizers is quite low. Therefore, we also present the information on howAMF improves N uptake and nitrogen use efﬁciency (NUE) in plants.Keywords: AMF, antioxidant defense system, aquaporins, drought stress, genes expression, hormones, NUEFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 1 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 2Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEINTRODUCTIONDrought stress (DS) is a serious abiotic stress, negatively aﬀectingplant growth and development across the globe (Amiri et al.,2015; Hassan et al., 2020). The recent increase in climate changehas increased the intensity of DS which is posing a seriouschallenge to global food security (Behrooz et al., 2019; Huanget al., 2020). Drought stress is the greatest threat to ﬁeld cropsand it has a direct impact on crop yields and the global economy(Dolan et al., 2021; He et al., 2022). Drought stress negativelyaﬀects the plant process ranging from seed germination, growth,and ﬁnal productivity. Seed germination is an essential processin the growth of plants (El-Badri et al., 2021). Successful cropproductivity mainly depends on seed germination and earlyplant growth has direct linking with seeds’ ability to sproutunder DS (Khan et al., 2019). Drought stress severely aﬀectsthe activities of hormones, mobilization of stored materials, andprotein structure that negatively aﬀect the seed germination andsubsequent growth of plants (Abdel-Ghani et al., 2015; Basal et al.,2020). DS also aﬀects enzymatic activities and reduces nutrientassimilation and nutrient uptake resulting in huge yield losses(Ahanger and Agarwal, 2017). Moreover, DS also impairs thephotosynthetic process, and plant water contents and reducesthe synthesis of photosynthetic pigments which negatively aﬀectsplant growth (Hellal et al., 2018; Mamnabi et al., 2020). Besidesthis, DS also impairs the structural integrity of photosyntheticapparatus which is the main reason for reduced growth under DS(Zhang et al., 2015).Drought stress also reduces photosynthesis by reducing cellturgor and plants’ access to CO 2owing to the closure of stomata(Jaleel et al., 2007). One of the major detriments of DS is theproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that damage thestructural integrity of membranes, proteins, and DNA (Ahangerand Agarwal, 2017; Sultan et al., 2021; Qari et al., 2022;Rehman et al., 2022). However, plants have developed diﬀerentmechanisms to reduce the harmful eﬀects of ROS to protect thestability of cellular structures and improve the yield under DS(Ahanger and Ahmad, 2019). The key mechanisms developed byplants to mitigate the adverse impacts of DS are better accretionof osmolytes and secondary metabolites and activation of theanti-oxidant defense system (Ahmad, 2010; Amiri et al., 2015).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) is one of the mostdistributed fungi across the globe that forms symbiosisassociation with more than 80% of terrestrial plant species(Behrooz et al., 2019). The symbiosis relationship formedbetween plants and AMF is beneﬁcial for plant growth, nutrientuptake, soil quality, and stress resistance (Bi et al., 2019; Ahmedet al., 2020; Gupta, 2020; Hu et al., 2022). The symbiosisrelationship between the host plant and AMF substantiallyimproved the resistance to drought stress (Hashem et al.,2019; Zhang et al., 2019). The regulation of DS in plantsby AMF is a complex process that involves diverse metabolicpathways and metabolites (Aalipour et al., 2020; Huang et al.,2020). AMF improves the survival of seedlings (Wu and Zou,2017), and promote water uptake and transportation in thehost plant (Quiroga et al., 2019a,b; Ren et al., 2019; Ortaset al., 2021), improve plant water use eﬃciency and gas changeabilities (Quiroga et al., 2019a; Huang et al., 2020), changethe morphology of roots (Quiroga et al., 2019b; Zhang et al.,2019), regulate hormone levels (Begum et al., 2020; Rydlováand Püschel, 2020), and reduce the production of ROS (Amiriet al., 2015) and thereby reduce the adverse impacts of DS.Additionally, AMF also produces glomalin, which is also knownas glomalin-related soil protein (GRSP), which works as aglue that promotes the formation of water-stable aggregates byphysical entanglement of extraradical hyphae, thus improvingthe soil water holding capacity and stabilization of soil structure(Santander et al., 2017; Gupta, 2020). Additionally, AMF alsoup-regulates anti-oxidant activities, osmolytes accumulation,gene expression and maintains the plant water status andphotosynthetic performance under DS and resulting in asigniﬁcant increase in DS tolerance (Al-Arjani et al., 2020; Seutraet al., 2021; Wang et al., 2022).Nitrogen (N) is an essential nutrient needed for plant growth(Nishida and Suzaki, 2018). However, the eﬃciency of appliednitrogenous fertilizers to fulﬁll the plant needs is quite low (40–45%) which needs to be improved for reducing the impact on theenvironment (Chien et al., 2016). The excessive use of N fertilizersincreases the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) particularnitrous oxide (N 2O) which is serious concern across the globe(Abeydeera et al., 2019). Globally, diﬀerent eﬀorts are being madeto improve the nitrogen use eﬃciency (NUE) in plants. Amongthese eﬀorts the use of microbes has emerged as an excellentstrategy to improve NUE. Among diﬀerent microbes AMF cansigniﬁcant improve the eﬃciency of N and other nutrients inﬁeld crops by increasing the surface area of roots to ensurethe better absorption of nutrients (Tajini et al., 2011). AMFinduce NO 3 and NH 4Ctransporters in plants, therefore, eﬀectN uptake in plants (Koegel et al., 2013). AMF also bring changesin compositions of soil microbial communities by changingthe development of denitrifying, nitrifying and diazotrophicsymbiotic or free-living bacteria which in turn aﬀect the N uptakeand subsequent N availability to plants (Veresoglou et al., 2011).In this review, we have presented detailed information about therole of AMF in inducing the DS tolerance in plants. We havesystematically presented diﬀerent mechanisms of AMF mediatedDS tolerance in plants. We have also discussed the researchgaps that need to be ﬁlled in future studies for improving thecrop production under DS with AMF. Additionally, we havealso discussed the role of AMF in improving NUE in plants forensuring better growth of plants.PLANT RESPONSES TO DROUGHTSTRESSDrought stress aﬀects each stage of plant growth, however,germination is a very crucial stage of plant life. Droughtreduces seed germination and leads to poor seedling growth anddevelopment (Khan et al., 2019). Water deﬁciency reduces seedgermination owing ( Figure 1 ) to a reduction in water uptake andavailability of stored food, and inactivation of enzymes involvedin the germination process (Jabbari et al., 2013). Drought alsocauses a signiﬁcant decrease in plant growth by decreasing the cellFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 2 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 3Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEFIGURE 1 | Plant responses to DS. The water deﬁciency disturbs plant physiological processes, plant photosynthetic efﬁciency, induces stomata closure, and ROSproduction which signiﬁcant reduction in plant growth. However, plants activate an antioxidant defense system, accumulate different osmolytes, increase geneexpression, produce a waxy layer and complete the early life cycle to mitigate the adverse impacts of DS.expansion, increasing leaf shedding, and impairing the processesof mitosis (Liu et al., 2013; Y ang et al., 2021; Batool et al., 2022a,b).DS also brings many morphological changes in plants, likewise,it reduces leaf area, leaf size, and root and shoot growth owing toactivation of abscisic acid (ABA) precursor (ACC) which preventsroot growth (Hewedy et al., 2021; Sayer et al., 2021). Despite thisthe activation of the ABA precursor also induces early maturity,leaf rolling and folding, and stomata closing which negativelyaﬀect the photosynthetic process and subsequent growth anddevelopment (Hewedy et al., 2021; Sayer et al., 2021). Moreover,DS also reduces the nodule growth and their functioning whichin turn reduces the N ﬁxation and leads to a signiﬁcant decreasein the growth and production of legume crops (Furlan et al., 2012;Wilmowicz et al., 2020).Photosynthesis is the main process negatively aﬀected byDS. The decrease in the photosynthetic process under DSoccurs due to stomatal and non-stomatal limitations (Bogatiand Walczak, 2022). The stomata limitations are consideredto be the main reason for decrease in the photosyntheticrate under mild DS, whereas non-stomata limitations arethe main reason for reduction in photosynthetic rate undersevere DS (Bogati and Walczak, 2022). Stomata closinglimits the carbon dioxide (CO 2) absorption and preventstranspiration losses owing to reduced water potential (Y anget al., 2021). In the case of non-stomata factors, the reducedactivity of RuBisCO and reduction in eﬃciency of PS-II substantially reduce the photosynthetic rate under DS(Ma et al., 2015).Drought also induces various biochemical changes in plants(Table 1 ). Likewise, DS reduces the synthesis of chlorophyllcontents and increases the proline contents, and causes oxidativedamage by inducing the production of ROS (Hassan et al.,2017). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by DS synthesisof chlorophyll and photosynthetic apparatus and lead to aserious reduction in photosynthesis and subsequent assimilateproduction (Bogati and Walczak, 2022). Drought stress alsodisturbs electron transport and decreases the pool size of electronacceptors (Feng and Cao, 2005; Azzeme et al., 2016), alsoleading to marked reduction in photosynthesis. Drought-inducedROS also damage membrane integrity and cause oxidation ofproteins, DNA, nucleic acid, lipids, and carbohydrates (Sabraet al., 2012; Dossa et al., 2017; Hassan et al., 2019, 2021; Baoet al., 2020; Jinhu et al., 2022; Khan et al., 2022a,b). However,plants accumulate diﬀerent osmolytes to counter the eﬀects ofDS. Among diﬀerent osmolytes, proline (Pro) is an importantosmolyte that reduces the ROS by stimulating the activity ofcatalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD), superoxide dismutase (SOD),and other diﬀerent antioxidant enzymes (Bogati and Walczak,2022). Proline has an appreciable ability to bind and hydrateenzymes thereby it stabilizes and protects the macro-moleculesFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 3 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 4Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEand maintains their structural integrity and their functioningunder DS (Y ang et al., 2021).Glycine betaine (GB) is important osmolyte that playsa crucial role in plant responses against DS (Bogati andWalczak, 2022). It improves growth, photosynthetic apparatus,and anti-oxidant activities and it also protects key enzymes ofthe dicarboxylic acid cycle and photosystem, which play animperious role in proper photosynthesis and respiration in plants(Ma et al., 2007). Plants under DS also synthesized diﬀerentproteins including late embryogenesis abundant proteins, proteinkinases, phospholipase C, phospholipase D, and G proteins,which play a signiﬁcant role against DS (Bogati and Walczak,2022). These proteins protect the functioning of ion channels,scavenge ROS, improve anti-oxidant activities, gene expression,membrane integrity, and water transportation at the cellularand sub-cellular levels and therefore improve plant toleranceagainst DS (Y ang et al., 2021). Plants also accumulate diﬀerenthormones and amino acids that play an important role in stomataregulation, osmolytes accumulation, and scavenging of ROS(Bowne et al., 2012; You et al., 2019).EFFECT OF DROUGHT STRESS ONGROWTH AND DIVERSITY OFARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIThe diversity of AMF species largely depends on the applicationand mode of the new methodology (Bahadur et al., 2019a).Around 250 AMF species have been recognized in diﬀerentecosystems (Opik et al., 2013). AMF improves plant responsesagainst the DS which in turn improves growth and ﬁnalproductivity (Basu et al., 2018; Ouledali et al., 2018). Conversely,DS also has a direct impact on AMF, and water shortagesigniﬁcantly reduces the germination of AMF spores, AMFgrowth, colonization, and elongation of AMF extra-radicalhyphae (Zhang et al., 2018). Over the years the major focus ofresearchers is to understand how DS aﬀects the diversity as wellas the composition of AMF. Generally, the behavior of AMFis opportunistic and they use their energy to produce moredescendants. In addition, AMF also develop many promisingcharacteristics to perform better in water deﬁcit conditions(Sykorova et al., 2007). Many authors noted that Glomus AMFspecies are considered typical species of semi-arid conditions andthey have an appreciable ability to grow well under DS conditions(Verma et al., 2008; Tian et al., 2009).THE ASSOCIATION OF HOST PLANTAND ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZALFUNGI UNDER DROUGHT STRESSPlants use diﬀerent strategies to avoid the deleterious impactsof DS. AMF modiﬁes plant root traits which in turn increasethe water uptake and reduce water loss (Bahadur et al., 2019b).Interestingly, upon exposure to DS most plants quickly askthe AMF to help them by secreting a rhizosphere moleculethat is known as strigolactone (Oldroyd and Speak, 2013). Inrecent years AMF have gained attention globally to reducethe adverse impacts of DS (Kumar and Verma, 2018). AMFassociation improves plant water status at the whole plantTABLE 1 | Effect of drought stress on growth, physiological, and biochemical response of plants.Plant species Drought stress Effects ReferencesFaba bean 40% FC DS decreases the chlorophyll contents, soluble sugars, APX, CAT, SOD, andincreased the MDA and H 2O2accumulationKenawy et al.(2022)Cotton 60% FC DS decreased membrane stability, RWC, chlorophyll contents, yieldcomponents, ﬁber quality, and increased antioxidant activities, electrolyteleakage, phenolic, and proline contentsEid et al. (2022)Chinese ﬁr 50% FC DS reduced the RWC, root and shoot growth, chlorophyll synthesis, chlorophyllﬂuorescence, stomata conductance, Fv/Fm, and starch contentsZhao et al. (2021)Maize DS was imposed by skippingirrigation at reproductive stageDS decreased the plant height, cob diameter, RWC, grain and biomass, andharvest indexMehmood et al.(2021)Maize 20–25 % FC DS reduced the biomass production, root shoot ratio, chlorophyll contents,stomata conductance, photosynthetic and transpiration rate, WUE, andincreases, APX and SOD activity and accumulation of total soluble protein andprolineBian et al. (2021)Brassica DS was imposed by skippingirrigation from ﬂowering stageDS reduced the chlorophyll contents, RWC, stomata conductance, grain yieldand increased the proline contentsShaﬁghi et al.(2021)Wheat 20% FC DS reduced the time to heading, anthesis and maturity, RWC, chlorophyllcontents, canopy temperature, assimilations production, grain yield andincrease proline accumulation and oxidative stressChowdhury et al.(2021)Wheat DS was imposed by skippingirrigation from heading to grainﬁlling stagesDS reduced the grain ﬁlling period, yield traits, grain weight, biomass yield, andharvest index of wheatPour et al. (2020)Barley 10% FC DS decreased the chlorophyll contents Fv/Fm ratio, WUE, plant height, tillersgrain weight, and grain yieldIstanbuli et al.(2020)FC, ﬁeld capacity.Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 4 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 5Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUElevel as indicated by high leaf relative water contents (LRWC;Barros et al., 2018). AMF association with plants under DSsigniﬁcantly improves plant growth by improving water andnutrient water (Kapoor et al., 2013; Pavithra and Y apa, 2018).AMF forms an extensive hyphal network which ensures betternutrient as well as water uptake by plant roots (Gong et al.,2012). Despite this AMF also aﬀect diverse plant mechanismsincluding root architecture, root hydraulic conductivity, andplant photosynthetic rate (Lee et al., 2012).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi-mediated response againstDS involves diﬀerent mechanisms including the activation ofgenes and metabolic pathways (Fiorilli et al., 2022). AMFimproves water uptake by the host plant by triggering hormonalsignaling and increasing the accumulation of osmolytes (Diagneet al., 2020). Plants tolerate drought-induced osmotic stress byincreasing the accumulation of sugars, proline, and GB (Latefet al., 2016). These metabolites reduce the osmotic potentialand leaf water potential (Wu et al., 2013) which allows theAMF inoculated plants to maintain higher turgor pressurewhich in turn improves the physiological activities particularlylinked with photosynthetic apparatus (Smith et al., 2010).AMF plants also counter the drought-induced oxidative stressby scavenging ROS through enhanced anti-oxidant activities(Begum et al., 2019a). AMF also increases root growth androot hydraulic characteristics and consequently increases root’sability to uptake more nutrients and water (Ouledali et al.,2018). Moreover, AMF hyphae also establish some beneﬁcialpathways in soil for better nutrient acquisition and transportationand leading to a signiﬁcant increase in plant growth underDS. AMF also activates plant molecular responses includingactivation of genes (aquaporins membrane transporters), ions,and sugar transporters (Bahadur et al., 2019a). Moreover,AMF substantially improves nutrient and water uptake whichimproves drought tolerance by aﬀecting diﬀerent physiologicaland biochemical processes (Diagne et al., 2020). Lastly, AMF alsoimproves the plant DS tolerance through secondary responsessuch as improving soil stability and water holding capacity(Bahadur et al., 2019b; Hamedani et al., 2022).THE ROLE OF ARBUSCULARMYCORRHIZAL FUNGI IN PLANTSUNDER DROUGHT STRESSDrought stress imposes serious threats to crop productivity andglobal food security. In recent years the role of AMF under DS iswell explored. AMF protects the plants against DS by mediatingbiochemical, morphological, and physiological mechanisms.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIMAINTAINS MEMBRANE STABILITY ANDPLANT WATER RELATIONSHIPSAGAINST DROUGHT STRESSDrought stress impedes plant growth by damaging the membraneintegrity (Hasanuzzaman et al., 2013); nonetheless, AMFeﬀectively improves the membrane stability and improves theplant performance under DS (Mirshad and Puthur, 2016).Malondialdehyde (MDA) is an important indicator of membranedamage (Hassan et al., 2020) and AMF can eﬀectively reduceMDA by 30–50% by increasing the activities of anti-oxidants(CAT and SOD), and therefore maintain the membrane integrityunder DS (Li et al., 2019). AMF improves Pro, GB, andsoluble sugar accumulation which protects plant proteins andmembranes from under DS (Hashem et al., 2016a; Begum et al.,2019a). The mycorrhizal association also maintains higher waterstatus in host plants which in turn maintains plant functioningunder DS (Barros et al., 2018). AMF association improvesroot hydraulic conductivity which improves water uptake andmaintains higher plant water status under DS (Augé et al., 2008).The large root surface area in the AMF association increasesthe water exploration area in soil which has a direct impact onLRWC, water potential, photosynthetic and transpiration rates,and crop yield (Meddich et al., 2015). Living hyphae involved inwater transportation have a smaller diameter of 2–5 mm whichallows them to penetrate soils that are inaccessible to root hairsand thereby absorb water and maintain higher water status inAMF inoculated plants (Allen, 2009).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi also showed beneﬁcial impactson soil aggregate stability owing to the production of aglycoprotein known as glomalin (Wu et al., 2008) which ensuresbetter water uptake and maintains higher plant water status(Augé et al., 2007). The glomalin in AMF association maintainssoil structure stability and improves the water holding capacitywhich in turn maintains higher plant water content underDS (Santander et al., 2017; Gupta, 2020). AMF also regulategene (TFT1-TFT12) expression involved in the ABA signalingpathway and improve the water status of plants in DS (Xu et al.,2018). Besides this AMF also improves plant root growth whichallows plants to take more nutrient and water and resultantlymaintains higher RWC under DS (Hashem et al., 2018). Inconclusion, AMF regulates antioxidant activities, and geneexpression, therefore maintaining membrane stability under DS.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIMAINTAINS WATER USE EFFICIENCYAND NUTRIENT UPTAKE UNDERDROUGHT STRESSStomata conductance plays an important role in thephotosynthetic process. DS signiﬁcantly reduces the stomataconductance (Hassan et al., 2020), however, AMF improvesstomata conductance resultantly improves the plant WUE(Ruíz-Sánchez et al., 2011). AMF improve gene expressioncoding for aquaporins and AMF mediated increase in geneexpression linked with aquaporins improve water absorption(Figure 2 ) by plants and ensures a higher WUE under DS (Porcelet al., 2005). In some other plants like Poncirus trifoliata andRosmarinus oﬃcinalis AMF has substantially improved thestomata conductance and plant WUE under DS (Ruíz-Sánchezet al., 2011). AMF also modify the accumulation of diﬀerentFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 5 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 6Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEFIGURE 2 | Schematic representation of different mechanisms mediated by AMF to improve growth and yield under DS. AMF improves soil aggregate stability, soilwater holding capacity, root hydraulic conductance, water uptake, plant water status, root exudation, root surface area, root development, uptake of nutrients andwater and leads to a signiﬁcant increase in DS tolerance. Moreover, AMF improves hormonal crosstalk, osmolytes accumulations and induces signaling transduction,phenol accumulation, maintains ionic homeostasis, the efﬁciency of PS-I, PS-II, intercellular CO 2concentration resultantly improves the DS and plant growth andyield under DS.hormones including ABA, jasmonic acid (JA), and strigolactoneswhich maintain the higher LRWC and plant WUE under DS(Fernández-Lizarazo and Moreno-Fonseca, 2016). The betterwater uptake and higher WUE in AMF association are alsolinked with better root activity and higher hydraulic conductanceof roots (Avio et al., 2006). In addition, increasing the ABA levelworks as an anti-transpirant, which reduces water loss by stomataclosing thus maintaining higher WUE under DS (Mohanta et al.,2017; Egamberdieva et al., 2018). AMF also produce glomalinsecretions which assist in nutrient and water uptake and leadto a signiﬁcant increase in WUE under DS (Gong et al., 2012).Likewise, AMF colonization also improves root growth and roothydraulic properties and consequently maintains higher wateruptake and WUE in plants facing DS (Ouledali et al., 2018).AMF hyphae also establish beneﬁcial pathways in soils for betternutrient and water uptake which leads to a substantial increasein WUE under DS (Hamedani et al., 2022).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi also maintains better nutrientuptake under DS and ensures better plant performance under DS.AMF improves calcium (Ca2C) uptake and Ca2Cis consideredto play an imperative role in plant stress signaling system toattain drought tolerance (Abd_Allah et al., 2017). Potassium(KC) also plays an important role in the activation of variousenzymes and it also up-regulates the anti-oxidant activities andFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 6 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 7Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEosmolytes accumulation (Hashem et al., 2016b). AMF inoculationimproves the plant growth under DS by increasing nitrogen (N),phosphorus (P), potassium (K), and magnesium (Mg) uptake(Egamberdieva et al., 2017). AMF inoculated plants have betterroot growth which maintains the higher nutrient uptake andensures better growth under DS (Egamberdieva et al., 2017).DS impedes nutrient uptake by making nutrients inaccessibleto plants owing to a reduction in roots exploration capacity indried soils (Hameed et al., 2014). AMF improves the growthof plant roots and their exploration ability, therefore, maintainsbetter nutrient uptake in AMF inoculated plants under DS(Bowles et al., 2018). AMF hyphae can also explore the soil poreswhich plant roots cannot explore, thereby, AMF maintains betternutrient uptake in plants under DS (Zhao et al., 2015). In anotherstudy, it was noted that AMF application appreciably improvedthe N, P , and Mg uptake and ensured better nutrient uptake forplants growing under DS (Miransari et al., 2007).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi makes better assimilation of Nin plants by increasing the activity of nitrate reductase (NR)enzymes (Garg, 2013). An increase in N status in mycorrhizalis due to increase transportation of N through AMF hyphaewhich also increases the concentration of P which is needed forthe phosphorylation of NR where there is a low concentrationof N (Caravaca et al., 2003). Phosphatases enzyme plays animportant role in the absorption, assimilation, and metabolism ofP (Abd_Allah et al., 2015). AMF improves phosphatase activity,which increases the organically bound P and therefore makesit available for uptake and transport (Egamberdieva et al., 2017).In conclusion, AMF increases gene expression is linked withaquaporins that improve water absorption and ensures ahigher WUE under DS. Moreover, an increase in nutrientsowing to AMF substantially improves the plant growth anddevelopment under DS.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIMAINTAINS PLANT PHOTOSYNTHETICPERFORMANCE UNDER DROUGHTSTRESSDrought stress negatively aﬀects photosynthesis and causes asigniﬁcant reduction in assimilate production for plants. DSreduces photosynthesis by decreasing the chlorophyll contentsand increasing the production of ROS (Sochacki et al., 2013).AMF eﬀectively improve chlorophyll synthesis and maintainsbetter photosynthesis and subsequent assimilate productionby reducing the ROS formation (Hashem et al., 2016a). DSalso reduces photosynthesis by reducing adenosine triphosphate(ATP) production, stomata, and non-stomata limitations (Hassanet al., 2020). However, AMF signiﬁcantly improved the gasexchange characteristics and ﬂuorescence parameters, nutrientand water uptake, and RuBisCO activities, therefore, ensuringbetter photosynthesis under DS (Begum et al., 2019b).Drought stress triggers the reduction in photosynthesisby reducing RuBisCO synthesis and up-regulating theactivity of chlorophyll degrading enzyme (chlorophyllase)(Dalal and Tripathy, 2012; Fatima et al., 2014). However, AMFsubstantially increased the chlorophyll contents and maintainbetter synthesis of RuBisCO and leading to a signiﬁcant increasein photosynthetic rate under DS (Abdel-Salam et al., 2018). AMFalso increased photosynthesis by aﬀecting both stomatal andnon-stomatal parameters. Likewise, AMF improved stomataconductance which increases the entry of CO 2into plant leaftissues which in turn increases the eﬃciency of PS-II resultantlyimproving photosynthetic eﬃciency under DS (Zhou et al., 2015;Mo et al., 2016). Drought stress down-regulated the enzymesresponsible for the synthesis of chlorophyll, however, at the sametime DS increases the activity of chlorophyll degrading enzyme(chlorophyllase) (Zhu et al., 2017). However, AMF substantiallydecreases the activity of chlorophyllase and maintains theactivity of genes and enzymes involved in chlorophyll synthesisthereby maintaining higher chlorophyll synthesis under DS(Hashem et al., 2016b; Alwhibi et al., 2017; Zhu et al., 2017).In another study, it was noted that AMF inoculation improvedthe chlorophyll contents, eﬃciency of PS-II, and root hydraulicconductivity (Calvo-Polanco et al., 2016). AMF inoculation alsoimproved the carotenoid contents which protect photosyntheticapparatus from drought-induced oxidative stress and ensuredoptimum photosynthesis under DS (Abd Allah et al., 2015).It is a well-known fact that plants facing the DS showa signiﬁcant reduction in photosynthesis owing to ROS thatdamage the photosynthetic apparatus which can reduce/limit thesupply of ATP and reduce nicotinamide adenine dinucleotidephosphate (NADPH) to the Calvin cycle (Abbaspour et al.,2012). However, AMF symbiosis improves plant water statuswhich increases stomata conductance and therefore increasesCO 2ﬁxing and improves the ATP and NADPH supply to Calvinsupply and resulting in better photosynthesis and assimilateproduction (Boldt et al., 2011; Estrada et al., 2013). DS alsodecreases the eﬃciency of PS-II and Fv/Fm ratio, and it hasbeen reported that AMF shows a positive eﬀect on PS-IIeﬃciency which in turn improves the plant photosynthesis underDS (Sánchez-Blanco et al., 2004; Manoharan et al., 2010). Tosummarize, AMF improves antioxidant activities which protectthe photosynthetic apparatus, therefore maintaining higherphotosynthetic eﬃciency under DS.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIMAINTAINS OSMOLYTEACCUMULATION AND CONFERSDROUGHT TOLERANCEOsmolyte accumulation is an important strategy used by plantsto cope with the deleterious impacts of DS. AMF inoculationsigniﬁcantly increased the accumulation of sugars, proline, andGB, which confer DS tolerance in plants. DS also triggers thesynthesis of glucose and proline, however, AMF further increasedthe synthesis of these osmolytes and improves the droughttolerance (Mona et al., 2017; Wu et al., 2017). AMF is consideredto upregulate the synthesis of enzymes involved in prolinesynthesis and AMF mediated increase in proline accumulationFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 7 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 8Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEprotects proteins ( Table 2 ) and membranes from ROS (AbdAllah et al., 2015; Hashem et al., 2015). The accumulation ofproline in plants also aﬀects the metabolism of N which is neededfor stress recovery. AMF signiﬁcantly improves the activity ofN metabolizing enzymes resulting in a marked increase in theaccumulation of energy-rich amino acids (Hameed et al., 2014)which enhanced the drought tolerance (Doubková et al., 2013;Ouledali et al., 2018) and biomass production in plants grownunder DS (Zou et al., 2013).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inoculation also increases theaccumulation of nitrogenous compounds and free polyaminesin water-deﬁcient plants (Rapparini and Peñuelas, 2014). Theincrease in the accumulation of polyamines adjusts the plantosmotic potential in DS which is considered to be an importantprotective mechanism of AMF against DS (Bakr et al., 2018).Some authors noted that AMF decreased the accumulation ofsoluble sugars and improve the plant tolerance against DS (Zhanget al., 2010). Contrarily, some authors also noted a positivecorrelation between AMF and accumulation of soluble sugarswhich might be due to the sink eﬀect on the AMF that demandssugar from plant shoot tissues (Yooyongwech et al., 2013). AMFalso caused a substantial increase in the accretion of free aminoacids (FAA) to increase NR activity which contributes toward toa great accumulation of FAA which in turn improve toleranceagainst DS (Zarea et al., 2011; Ahanger et al., 2017). Improved GBaccumulation protects the photosynthesis and RuBisCO activityand plants from the damaging eﬀects of DS (Khan and Hakeem,2014). Drought tolerance in plants is upregulated by anti-oxidantactivities which are further enhanced by the accumulation of GBand proline (Hashem et al., 2016a). Additionally, AMF-mediatedincrease in osmolytes accumulation improved the functioningof RuBisCO, and protects the photosynthetic apparatus fromROS which in turn improved the plant performance under DS(Mo et al., 2016).ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIMAINTAINS HORMONAL CROSSTALKTO CONFER DROUGHT TOLERANCEDrought stress causes a signiﬁcant increase in ABA bio-synthesiswhich increases the ABA level in plants and induces the stomataclosure which minimizes the water loss by transpiration (Pozoet al., 2015; Xie et al., 2018). ABA is an abiotic stress hormone anda reduction in ABA level may explain why an AMF-associatedplant has more tolerance against DS. AMF are considered tobe indispensable for sustaining the AMF colonization, especiallyin unfavorable conditions such as drought conditions (Ludwig-Müller, 2010). ABA improves AMF colonization, functionality aswell as development (Herrera-Medina et al., 2007; Aroca et al.,2013). Strigolactones are newly discovered plant hormones thatregulate plant architecture and reproductive development (Fooand Reid, 2013). However, they were initially identiﬁed for theirintermediation capacity in the AMF symbiosis, where they workas a signaling molecule for plants under unfavorable conditions(López et al., 2010).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonization in the host plantalso activates the jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathway (Tejedaet al., 2008; Asensio et al., 2012). Jasmonic acid together with ABAplays an important role development and functionality of AMF.Auxins (IAA) and gibberellic acid (GA) play an imperious role inthe growth of plants under stress conditions (Vishwakarma et al.,2017). AMF colonization signiﬁcantly increases the accumulationof IAA, GA, and JA which improved the plant performanceTABLE 2 | Effect of AMF on growth and physiological traits on different plants grown under DS.Plant species Drought stress Effects ReferencesSoybean 40% FC AMF improved the RWC, proline contents, chlorophyll contents, pods,grain weight, grain, and biomassIgiehon et al. (2021)Rice 50% FC AMF improved the RWC, plant height, chlorophyll contents, paniclesper plant, root and shoot dry matter, grain weight, grain yield, and WUEDas et al. (2021)Soybean DS was imposed byskipping irrigation and podand seed developmentstageAMF improved the plant biomass, chlorophyll contents, IAA contents,branches per plant, nodules/plant, and grain yieldSheteiwy et al.(2021)Tobacco 30% FC AMF improved leaves/plant, plant height, plant biomass, chlorophyllcontents, Fv/Fm, free amino acids, proline, total phenols, and essentialoilsBegum et al. (2021)Sorghum DS was imposed byskipping irrigationAMF inoculation improved chlorophyll contents, N contents, prolinecontents, panicles per plant, and 1000 grain weightKamali andMehraban (2020a)Wheat 22% FC AMF inoculation improved the RWC, chlorophyll contents, chlorophyllﬂuorescence, efﬁciency of PS-I and PS-IIMathur et al. (2019)Strawberry 35% FC AMF improved the root and shoot biomass, RWC, stomataconductance, photosynthetic rate, WUE, free amino acids, solublesugars, proline, and uptake of Mn, Fe, Si, and ZnMoradtalab et al.(2019)Maize 40% FC AMF inoculation increased the root and shoots growth, N, P , K, Ca, andMg uptake and WUE of maize plantsZhao et al. (2015)Soybean 55% FC AMF increased the plant height, root length, root surface area andsoluble sugarsLiu et al. (2013)Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 8 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 9Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEunder stress and drought tolerance (Egamberdieva et al., 2018;Hashem et al., 2018; Sánchez et al., 2018). Drought tolerance inplants is up-regulated by anti-oxidant activities which are furtherenhanced by the accumulation of GB and proline (Hashem et al.,2016a). To summarize, AMF inoculation improves the synthesisand accumulation of osmolytes and hormones which maintainsbetter plant performance under DS.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIIMPROVES THE ACCUMULATION OFPHENOLS AND ENZYME ACTIVITY TOCONFER DROUGHT STRESSPhenolic compounds have excellent anti-oxidant activity andthey play a signiﬁcant role in stress conditions. AMF signiﬁcantlyincreases the accumulation of phenolic substances, whichstrengthens the anti-oxidant defense system and improvesthe tolerance against DS (Begum et al., 2019a). Polyphenolicsubstances are active scavengers of free radicals and protect cellstructures and their functioning (Hazzoumi et al., 2015). AMFsubstantially increase the accumulation of phenolic compoundsby 50–60% which substantially improves the DS tolerance (Amiriet al., 2015; Kasote et al., 2015). AMF inoculation increases theaccumulation of phenols and ﬂavonoids which play an importantin mycorrhization, adaptation, and growth of plants by inducingcellular signaling (Steinkellner et al., 2007; Mandal et al., 2010).Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) is found abundantlyin higher plants that play a crucial role in plant metabolismand this enzyme also improves plant protection against bioticand abiotic stresses (Osakabe et al., 2007). AMF inoculationsubstantially improved the up-regulation of PAL which in turnimproved the plant growth and provide protection against DS(Osakabe et al., 2007; Hao et al., 2016; Datrindade et al., 2019).Further AMF also increases the concentration of total GRSP (T-GRSP), easily extractable (EE-GRSP), and diﬃcultly extractable(DE-GRSP) under DS. Glomalin-related soil proteins (GRSP)contain diﬀerent cations, carbohydrates, proteins, and aliphaticcomponents and work as glue to bind soil particles (Rillig et al.,2001). AMF substantially increases T-GRSP, EE-GRSP , and DE-GRSP under DS and ensures better water uptake and planttolerance against DS (Begum et al., 2021).ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGISTRENGTHENS THE ANTI-OXIDANTDEFENSE SYSTEM TO CONFERDROUGHT TOLERANCEThe major eﬀect of DS is the production of ROS that damageplant cellular membranes, proteins, and lipids. Nonetheless,AMF improve anti-oxidant activities and mitigate the drought-induced ROS eﬀects on plants (Egamberdieva et al., 2017).Stress conditions up-surge the ROS which causes lipid-peroxidation and aﬀects the functioning and ﬂuidity ofcellular membranes. However, AMF signiﬁcantly increases theactivity of antioxidants [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase(CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), glutathione reductase (GR),ascorbic acid (AsA), and glutathione synthetase (GSH)] whichin turn increases the cellular stability (Hashem et al., 2016a,b).Superoxide dismutase is the ﬁrst line of defense against oxidativestress and APX, GR, AsA, and GSH ( Table 3 ) are key componentsof ROS scavenging pathways. AMF increases the activity of theaforementioned antioxidant and neutralizes H 2O2by preventingthe formation of toxic OH and protecting plant mitochondriaand electron transport (Abd_Allah et al., 2015; Mona et al.,2017). The better maintenance of AsA-GSH components ensuresNADP availability in order to keep electron transport at a normalrate. AMF substantially improves the activities of AsA andGSH which in turn maintain NADP availability and electrontransport thus improving photosynthesis under DS (Scheibeand Dietz, 2012; Abd Allah et al., 2015). Many other authorsalso reported that AMF signiﬁcantly increases the APX, CAT,SOD, and GR activities which demonstrated greater protectionof the photosynthetic apparatus and subsequently improve plantgrowth (Mirzai et al., 2013; Weng et al., 2015; Y ang et al., 2015).Likewise, an increase in AsA and glutathione (GT) has beenreported in Brassica napus and Sesbania sesban plants inoculatedwith AMF resulting in greater stress tolerance (Shaﬁq et al., 2014;Abd Allah et al., 2015). The Brassica napus are considered tofall among the plants that do not form arbuscules within theroots, however, beneﬁcial impacts of AMF association can beattained without a complete mycorrhizal association (Fernandezet al., 2020). SOD induced dis-mutation of superoxide radicalsproduced in plant chloroplast prevent damage to photosyntheticapparatus (Per et al., 2016). AMF-mediated increase in SODactivity prevents the production of hydroxyl radicals throughthe Haber–Weiss reaction, which can otherwise pose seriousdamage to plant membranes and organelle functioning (Ahangeret al., 2017). Likewise, AMF-mediated increases in CAT and PODneutralize excessive H 2O2in cytosol whereas APX, GR, AsA, andGSH work as an intriguing pathway for neutralizing the H 2O2in plant chloroplast and mitochondria (Ahanger et al., 2017).Many other authors also demonstrated that AMF inoculationupregulates anti-oxidant activities, increases photosynthesis, andmaintains the redox homeostasis in plants grown under DS(Y ang et al., 2015; Mo et al., 2016). AsA and GSH are keycomponents of redox buﬀer and they can also scavenge ROSdirectly and AMF up-regulates these anti-oxidants to counter thestress conditions (Weng et al., 2015; Begum et al., 2019b). Inconclusion, the AMF-mediated increase in antioxidant activitiesalleviates drought-induced toxic eﬀects and maintains betterplant performance.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIREGULATES GENE EXPRESSIONAQUAPORINS ACTIVITY TO CONFERDROUGHT STRESS TOLERANCEAquaporins are involved in the transportation of water inplant roots and shoots. They also play an important roleFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 9 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 10Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEin plant growth, ﬁxation of CO 2, nutrient allocation, andplant interactions with diﬀerent abiotic stresses (Maurel et al.,2015). Recently, AQP functions in plant-water relations receivedconsiderable attention as an important way to improve cropperformance (Moshelion et al., 2015; Tharanya et al., 2018). AQPmaintains the root water balance with transpiration (Sadok andSinclair, 2010) by increasing root hydraulic conductivity uponhigh transpiration demand (Sakurai et al., 2011). In some crops,AQP functioning is also improved under lower transpirationwhich is also considered to be beneﬁcial for crop yields (Kholováet al., 2012). AQP is considered to be involved in diversephysiological mechanisms that determine the pattern as well asthe rate of plant water usage (Vadez et al., 2013). Further AMFalso enhanced the root hydraulic conductance and maintainshydraulic continuity between plant roots thereby reducing thedrop in matric potential at the root-soil furnace and enhancingthe water uptake by AMA inoculated plants (Quiroga et al.,2019a; Pauwels et al., 2020; Abdalla and Ahmed, 2021).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi symbiosis activates diﬀerentmolecular mechanisms including activation of gene expression,aquaporins (AQP) membrane transporters, sugar, and iontransporters to cope with the impacts of DS (Bahadur et al.,2019a). The AMF-mediated increase in expression of AQPimproves nutrient and water uptake and mitigates the drought-induced toxic eﬀects (Bahadur et al., 2019a). Likewise, intomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) plants AMF increased the DSby regulating the expression of genes (TFT1-TFT12) involvedin the ABA signaling pathway (Xu et al., 2018). The AMF-mediated increase in D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase (IPS)and 14-3-3-like protein GF14 (14-3GF) expression improved theplant tolerance against DS (Li et al., 2016). In another study,it was noted that expression of two AQP genes (GintAQPF1and GintAQPF2) was markedly increased in mycorrhizal rootsin response to DS which supports the evidence of direct AMFinvolvement in improving the plant tolerance against DS (Liet al., 2013). Consistently, another group of authors also noted asigniﬁcant increase in AQPs gene expression in AMF-inoculatedroots cells under DS which in turn increased the toleranceagainst DS by increasing nutrient and water uptake and betterarchitecture of the root system (Neumann et al., 2009; Zouet al., 2015). AMF symbiosis clearly regulates AQP expressionand improves root hydraulic conductivity, root water status, andtolerance against DS (Aroca et al., 2012; Bárzana et al., 2014).The increase in expression of AQPs in AMF inoculated plantssubstantially increased the root hydraulic conductivity which inturn increased plant performance under DS (Sanchez-Romeraet al., 2016). In another study, it was noted that AMF increasesthe expression of PtAHA2 genes in plant leaves and roots underDS and leads to a signiﬁcant increase in photosynthetic andtranspiration rates, intercellular CO 2concentration, and stomataconductance (Cheng et al., 2021). TdSHN1 is considered to beinvolved in plant tolerance against diﬀerent abiotic Djemal andKhoudi (2015) AMF considerably increased the expression ofSHN1 which in turn improved the plant WUE by modifyingthe leaf diﬀusive characteristics owing to the accumulation ofhigh levels of wax (Aharoni et al., 2004; Fiorilli et al., 2022).Another gene named dehydration responsive element bindingprotein (DREB) has been reported to play an important roleagainst DS (Latini et al., 2013). In a study, it was notedAMF improve the expression of TdDRF1 and induce droughttolerance in wheat plants (Fiorilli et al., 2022). AMF also up-regulates the expression of MdGH3-2 and MdGH3-12 whichimprove the plant RWC, photosynthetic capacity, chlorophyllcontents, and scavenging of ROS in apple plants (Huang et al.,2021). Conversely, silencing of MdGH3-2/12 genes from appleplants negatively aﬀected AMF colonization, plant growth, andsubsequent development under DS (Huang et al., 2021). AMFincrease the genes’ expression which in turn increased thetolerance against DS by increasing nutrient and water uptake andbetter architecture of the root system.ARBUSCULAR MYCORRHIZAL FUNGIIMPROVES GROWTH, YIELD, ANDQUALITY UNDER DROUGHT STRESSArbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonization signiﬁcantly improvesplant growth and development under DS ( Table 2 ). AMF-mediated increases in growth under stress can be attributed toan increase in the accumulation of growth-promoting hormones,better nutrient and water uptake, and scavenging of ROS(Egamberdieva et al., 2017; Vishwakarma et al., 2017). AMFalso maintain optimum nutrient availability and plant tissuewater status which in turn improves the overall performance ofplants under DS (Abdel-Salam et al., 2018). AMF also modiﬁesroot characteristics including root diameter, root morphology,and promotes a dense root system which allows better nutrient(N, P , and K) and water uptake and resultantly ensures betterplant growth under DS (Chitarra et al., 2016; Begum et al.,2019b). Moreover, AMF inoculation also increases the plantheight, leaves per plant, and biomass production by improving Puptake, water acquisition, and cellular signaling in plants underDS (Li et al., 2013; Jayne and Quigley, 2014; Begum et al.,2021). In another study, Sheteiwy et al. (2021) noted that DSsigniﬁcantly reduces the grain yield of plants. However, AMF(Bradyrhizobium ) inoculation considerably increased the growthand yield by decreasing lipid peroxidation through enhancedantioxidant activities (CAT and POD) and accumulation ofproline under DS (Sheteiwy et al., 2021).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi also improve the plantmetabolism, which aﬀects both the quality and quantity ofsecondary metabolites quality (Karagiannidis et al., 2011; Fokomet al., 2019). Likewise, in tobacco plants, AMF improved theaccumulation of essential oil (EO) which was linked with achange in the secondary metabolism of the plant (Begum et al.,2021). In another study, it was reported that AMF in combinationwith vermicompost signiﬁcantly improved plant height, root andshoot length, biomass, and grain yield of quinoa plants underwell water and DS (Cozzolino et al., 2016; Lahbouki et al., 2022).Likely, the beneﬁcial impacts of AMF in improving the plantsgrowth are also linked with improved nutrient cycling, betternutrient and water uptake, bio-degradation of organic matter,Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 10 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 11Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEhormone production, and improvement in soil properties(Cavagnaro, 2015; Zhang et al., 2020; Benaﬀari et al., 2022).IMPLICATIONS OF ARBUSCULARMYCORRHIZAL FUNGI FOR IMPROVINGNITROGEN USE EFFICIENCYNitrogen (N) is an essential nutrient needed for plant growthand development. However, its deﬁciency in agricultural soilsis a major problem. Therefore, to fulﬁll plant nutrient needsfarmers use a large quantity of N fertilizers, which is also posinga serious threat to the environment (Varinderpal-Singh et al.,2020). The poor recovery eﬃciency of N fertilizers poses seriouseconomical, environmental, and ecological losses (Varinderpal-Singh et al., 2020). Inappropriate timing and excessive use of Nfertilizers are major reasons for the lower recovery eﬃciency of Nfertilizers (Varinderpal et al., 2021). Globally, diﬀerent strategiesare being used to improve the eﬃciency of applied nutrients.Among these, the use of microbes is considered an importantand eﬀective approach to improve N use eﬃciency. Many authorshave reported the role of AMF in the uptake of nutrients ( Figure3) which can appreciably improve the growth of the host plant(Smith et al., 2011). The formation of a hyphal network in AMFinoculated plants limits the ineﬃcient use of applied N fertilizers.AMF play an imperative part in N cycling by altering microbialcompositions and modifying the development of denitrifying,nitrifying, and free-living bacteria (Veresoglou et al., 2011).In many crops, N is considered to be a limiting factor andmany authors have noted that AMF absorbs and transfers Nto nearby plants and improves their growth and development(Battini et al., 2017; Turrini et al., 2018). In another study,Zhang et al. (2018b) noted that AMF increases the shootbiomass and panicles and grains production by increasing the Nuptake and its redistribution to plants. AMF form a symbioticrelationship that improves nutrient uptake particular N whichin turn improves the plant growth and development (Battiniet al., 2017). The interaction between the AMF and salinity stresssigniﬁcantly aﬀects the N and P concentration in plant parts.AMF signiﬁcantly improve N contents and NUE in crop plants(Turrini et al., 2018). It has been reported that AMF can take asigniﬁcant amount of N from dead and decomposed materialsthen provide N to host plants and improve N uptake and NUEof the host plant (Turrini et al., 2018).The extra-radical hyphae of AMF absorb and assimilateinorganic N (Jin et al., 2005) and it has been reported that 20–75%N uptake by AMF is transferred to the host plant which in turnimproves NUE in host plants (Hashem et al., 2018). The increasein the N uptake in AMF-inoculated plants increases chlorophyllsynthesis which improves the plant’s photosynthetic eﬃciencyand subsequent assimilate production (Deandrade et al., 2015).AMF symbiosis also improves C and N accumulation underelevated CO 2concentration and ambient conditions (Zhu et al.,2016). Moreover, AMF also improve the N, P , K, Ca, andMg uptake under DS (Asrar et al., 2012; Bati et al., 2015).Additionally, AMF also proved beneﬁcial in accumulating the Fe,TABLE 3 | Effect of AMF on oxidative stress markers, antioxidant activities and genes expression under DS.Plant species Drought stress Effects ReferencesWheat 50% FC AMD reduced the ROS and improved the activities of CAT,APX, GR, and SODTereucán et al.(2022)Tobacco 30% FC AMF reduced MDA contents and improved APX, CAT,POD, SOD, GSH, and AsA activitiesBegum et al. (2021)White clover 55% FC AMD decreased the MDA accumulation and signiﬁcantlyincreased the CAT, POD, and SOD activitiesLiang et al. (2021)Date Palm 25% FC AMF improved membrane stability, reduced EL, andincrease activities of CAT, POD, SOD and GSHHarkousse et al.(2021)Soybean DS was imposed byskipping irrigation and podand seed developmentstageAMF reduced the ROS, MDA accumulation and increasedactivities of POD, CAT, and expression of P5CS, P5CR,PDH, P5CDH, GmSPS1, GmSuSy, and GmC-INVSheteiwy et al.(2021)Orange 55% FC AMF improved the expression of PtMn-SOD, PtCAT1, andPtPOD and activities of SOD and CAT and reduced the EL,MDA, and H 2O2accumulationHe et al. (2022)Sorghum DS was imposed byskipping irrigationAMF reduced the MDA accumulation and EL and increasedthe activities APX, POD, and CATKamali andMehraban (2020b)Tea 55% FC AMD signiﬁcantly decreased the MDA accumulation, andactivities of CAT and SOD and expression of CsCAT andCsSOD genesLiu et al. (2020)French bean DS was imposed bywithholding irrigation for5 daysAMF reduced the MDA contents increase activities of CAT,POD, SOD, and GSHPrabha andSharadamma(2019)Ryegrass 25% FC AMF signiﬁcant reduced the MDA accumulation, EL andincreased the activities of CAT, POD, and SODYang et al. (2019)FC, ﬁeld capacity.Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 11 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 12Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEFIGURE 3 | AMF forms a symbiotic association with plants and it improves N extraction from dead materials and it also improves microbial activities and N uptake,thereby improving NUE in plants.Mn, Mg, and Na and protecting the plants from the toxic eﬀects ofthese metals (Bati et al., 2015). A signiﬁcant positive relationshipwas noted between N accumulation and biomass productionwhich suggested that an increase in dry matter production wasassociated with an increase in N uptake in AMF inoculatedplants (Zhu et al., 2016). In another study, Fellbaum et al. (2012)noted that C supply increases the N uptake and transportationin AMF symbiosis. Moreover, NUE of AMF inoculated plants isconsidered to be higher at elevated CO 2as compared to non-AMF-inoculated plants which suggested that AMF colonizationmay change the balance of N and C under elevated CO 2bychanging the C demands of AMF and supply of N from AMF tohost plants (Cavagnaro et al., 2011).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi plays an imperative role in Ncycling by absorbing N and then supplying it to host plants(Bonfante and Genre, 2010). The extraradical mycelium of AMFcan directly absorb ammonium, nitrate, and amino acids andimprove the N uptake and subsequently N use eﬃciency inplants (Basu et al., 2018). Additionally, AMF are also vital forthe translocation of N and which in turn increases the NUEand neutralizes the excessive N fertilization (Leifheit-Eva et al.,2014; Rosolem et al., 2017). AMF assist plant roots to supply soilnutrients to host plants which are largely depend on symbiosisreaction between strigolactones, AMF “Myc factors” and rootexudates of host plant roots (Basu, 2018) thereby this associationimprove the N uptake resultantly NUE in plants (Xing et al.,2019). Additionally, strigolactones also adjust root developmentand shoot branching (Seto et al., 2012) and signiﬁcantly inﬂuencethe N distribution as well as N translocation to diﬀerentshoot tissues (Luo et al., 2018). Moreover, AMF forms aninterconnected hyphal network which improves the N uptake andNUE in host plant (Verzeaux et al., 2017). The beneﬁcial impactof AMF in improving N uptake and NUE has been highlightedin a meta-analysis of more than 300 ﬁeld studies. The results ofthe meta-analysis indicated that the use of AMF is a proﬁtablepractice and has many agronomic uses and improves N uptakeand subsequently NUE in plants (Mensah et al., 2015).CONCLUSION AND FUTUREPROSPECTIVEDrought stress causes a serious reduction in plant growth anddevelopment by disturbing plant physiological, biochemical,and molecular responses. However, AMF protects plants underDS and substantially improves their growth and development.AMF inoculation maintains membrane integrity and plant waterstatus, protects photosynthetic apparatus from drought-inducedoxidative stress, and improves the synthesis of photosyntheticpigments thereby improving plant growth and developmentunder DS. AMF also improves the accumulation of osmolytesand, hormones and gene expression and anti-oxidant activitieswhich leads to an appreciable improvement in plant performancein water deﬁcit conditions. Besides this, AMF also improves theexpression of aquaporins and improves the water uptake andwater use eﬃciency which are major reasons for AMF-mediatedimprovement in plant growth under DS. Additionally, AMFalso improves soil health and plays an important role in soilFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 12 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 13Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEnutrient cycling and improves nutrient uptake and nutrient useeﬃciency and alleviates negative impacts of DS, and improvesplant growth and yield.Despite recent progress about the role of AMF in mitigatingthe adverse eﬀects of DS, there are many unanswered questions.The role of AMF in seed germination mechanism is poorlystudied, therefore it is important to determine how AMF aﬀectthe germination mechanism and improve seed germinationunder DS. The role of AMF in nutrient uptake is wellstudied by authors, however, its role in nutrient signaling, iontransport, and nutrient channels is not explored. Therefore,it would be fascinating to perform research on these aspectsto increase our understanding of the role of AMF againstDS. The role of AMF in improving photosynthesis is clearlyexplored nonetheless, its role in stomata movements is stillunknown therefore, it is suggested to explore the role of AMFin stomata signaling and its impacts on anion channels in leafguard cells under DS.The role of AMF on hormones (ABA, GA, and IAA) andosmolytes (proline and GB) accumulation under DS is willbe studied by the authors. However, it would be interestingto explore the relationship between AMF cytokinin, ethylene,salicylic acid, proline, and GB at the transcriptomic level.Also, it would also be interesting to understand the eﬀect ofAMF on genes and enzymes involved in the synthesis of thesecompounds under DS. The role of AMF on pollen viability andquality of crops is not explored well, therefore, it is needed tounderstand the role of AMF in improving pollen viability andﬁnal crop quality under DS. Likewise, the identiﬁcation of hostplant and AMF-speciﬁc protein factors regulating the symbioticrelationship and major cellular as well as metabolic pathwaysunder DS can also be an important area of research. The roleof AMF on nitrogen use eﬃciency (NUE) is well explored inplants. However, more studies are needed at the transcriptomic,proteomics, and metabolomics level to elucidate the role of AMFin N uptake and its eﬀect on NUE. Lastly, more studies are direlyneeded to determine the eﬀect of AMF on aquaporins and theirrole in plant water uptake under DS.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSHT and MH: conceptualization and writing original draft.LF, JM, YL, MN, AS, and SQ: reviewing and editing.All authors contributed to the article and approved thesubmitted version.FUNDINGThis work was supported and funded by the National NaturalScience Foundation of China (32060318), and Project of theYouth Fund of Hunan University of Humanities, Science andTechnology (2010QN23).REFERENCESAalipour, H., Nikbakht, A., Etemadi, N., Rejali, F., and Soleimani, M. (2020).Biochemical response and interactions between arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi and plant growth promoting rhizobacteria during establishment andstimulating growth of Arizona cypress ( Cupressus arizonica G.) under droughtstress. Sci. Hortic. 261:108923.Abbaspour, H., Saeidi-Sar, S., Afshari, H., and Abdel-Wahhab, M. A. (2012).Tolerance of mycorrhiza infected pistachio ( Pistacia vera L.) seedling to droughtstress under glasshouse conditions. J. Plant Physiol. 169, 704–709. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2012.01.014Abdalla, M., and Ahmed, M. A. (2021). Arbuscular mycorrhiza symbiosis enhanceswater status and soil-plant hydraulic conductance under drought. Front. PlantSci.12:722954. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.722954Abd_Allah, E. F., Abeer, H., Alqarawi, A. A., and Hend, A. A. (2015). Alleviationof adverse impact of cadmium stress in sunﬂower ( Helianthus annuus L.) byarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Pak. J. Bot 47, 785–795.Abd_Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., Hashem, A., Radhakrishnan, R., Al-Huqail, A. A.,Al-Otibi, F. O. N., et al. (2017). Endophytic bacterium Bacillus subtilis (BERA71) improves salt tolerance in chickpea plants by regulating the plant defensemechanisms. J. Plant Interact. 13, 37–44.Abd Allah, E. F., Hashem, A., Alqarawi, A. A., Bahkali, A. H., and Alwhibi, M. S.(2015). Enhancing growth performance and systemic acquired resistance ofmedicinal plant Sesbania sesban (L.) Merr using arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiunder salt stress. Saudi J. Biol. Sci . 22, 274–283. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2015.03.004Abdel-Ghani, A. H., Neumann, K., Wabila, C., Sharma, R., Dhanagond, S., Owais,S. J., et al. (2015). Diversity of germination and seedling traits in a spring barley(Hordeum vulgare L.) collection under drought simulated conditions. Genet.Resour. Crop Evol. 62, 275–292.Abdel-Salam, E., Alatar, A., and El-Sheikh, M. A. (2018). Inoculation witharbuscular mycorrhizal fungi alleviates harmful eﬀects of drought stresson damask rose. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 25, 1772–1780. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2017.10.015Abeydeera, L. H. U. W., Mesthrige, J. W., and Samarasinghalage, T. I. (2019).Global research on carbon emissions: a scientometric review. Sustainability11:3972.Ahanger, M. A., and Agarwal, R. M. (2017). Salinity stress induced alterations inantioxidant metabolism and nitrogen assimilation in wheat ( Triticum aestivumL) as inﬂuenced by potassium supplementation. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 115,449–460. doi: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2017.04.017Ahanger, M. A., and Ahmad, P. (2019). Role of Mineral Nutrients in Abiotic StressTolerance . Amsterdam: Elsevier Inc, 2019.Ahanger, M. A., Hashem, A., Abd-Allah, E. F., and Ahmad, P. (2017). “Arbuscularmycorrhiza in crop improvement under environmental stress, ” in EmergingTechnologies and Management of Crop Stress Tolerance , eds P. Ahmad, and S.Rasool (Cambridge, MA: Academic Press), 69–95.Aharoni, A., Dixit, S., Jetter, R., Thoenes, E., Van Arkel, G., and Pereira, A.(2004). The SHINE clade of AP2 domain transcription factors activates waxbiosynthesis, alters cuticle properties, and confers drought tolerance whenoverexpressed in Arabidopsis. Plant Cell 16, 2463–2480. doi: 10.1105/tpc.104.022897Ahmad, P. (2010). Growth and antioxidant responses in mustard ( Brassica junceaL.) plants subjected to combined eﬀect of gibberellic acid and salinity. Arch.Agron. Soil Sci. 56, 575–588.Ahmed, A., Abdelmalik, A., Alsharani, T., Al-Qarawi, B. A., and Aref, I. (2020).Response of growth and drought tolerance of Acacia seyal Del. seedlings toarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Plant Soil Environ. 66, 264–271.Al-Arjani, A. B. F., Hashem, A., and Abd-Allah, E. F. (2020). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi modulates dynamics tolerance expression to mitigatedrought stress in Ephedra foliata Boiss. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 27, 380–394. doi:10.1016/j.sjbs.2019.10.008Allen, M. F. (2009). Bidirectional water ﬂows through the soil-fungal-plantmycorrhizal continuum. New Phytol. 182, 290–293. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2009.02815.xAlwhibi, M. S., Khalil, M. I., Ibrahim, M. M., El-Gaaly, G. A., and Sultan, A. S.(2017). Potential antitumor activity and apoptosis induction of GlossostemonFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 13 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 14Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEbruguieri root extract against hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Evid. BasedComplement. Alternat. Med. 2017:7218562. doi: 10.1155/2017/7218562Amiri, R., Nikbakht, A., and Etemadi, N. (2015). Alleviation of drought stresson rose geranium [ Pelargonium graveolens (L.) Herit.] in terms of antioxidantactivity and secondary metabolites by mycorrhizal inoculation. Sci. Hortic. 197,373–380.Aroca, R., Porcel, R., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M. (2012). Regulation of root wateruptake under abiotic stress conditions. J. Exp. Bot. 63, 43–57. doi: 10.1093/jxb/err266Aroca, R., Ruiz-Lozano, J. M., Zamarreño, ÁM., Paz, J. A., García-Mina, J. M., Pozo,M. J., et al. (2013). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis inﬂuences strigolactoneproduction under salinity and alleviates salt stress in lettuce plants. J. PlantPhysiol. 170, 47–55. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2012.08.020Asensio, D., Rapparini, F., and Peñuelas, J. (2012). AM fungi root colonizationincreases the production of essential isoprenoids vs. nonessential isoprenoidsespecially under drought stress conditions or after jasmonic acid application.Phytochemistry 77, 149–161. doi: 10.1016/j.phytochem.2011.12.012Asrar, A. A., Abdel-Fattah, G. M., and Elhindi, K. M. (2012). Improving growth,ﬂower yield, and water relations of snapdragon ( Antirhinum majus L.)plants grown under well-watered and water-stress conditions using arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi. Photosynthetica 50, 305–316.Augé, R. M., Toler, H. D., Moore, J. L., Cho, K., and Saxton, A. M. (2007).Comparing contributions of soil versus root colonization to variations instomatal behavior and soil drying in mycorrhizal Sorghum bicolor andCucurbita pepo. J. Plant Physiol. 164, 1289–1299. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2006.08.005Augé, R. M., Toler, H. D., Sams, C. E., and Nasim, G. (2008). Hydraulicconductance and water potential gradients in squash leaves showingmycorrhiza-induced increases in stomatal conductance. Mycorrhiza 18, 115–121. doi: 10.1007/s00572-008-0162-9Avio, L., Pellegrino, E., Bonari, E., and Giovannetti, M. (2006). Functional diversityof arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal isolates in relation to extraradical mycelialnetworks. New Phytol. 172, 347–357. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2006.01839.xAzzeme, A. M., Abdullah, S. N. A., Aziz, M. A., and Wahab, P. E. M. (2016).Oil palm leaves and roots diﬀer in physiological response, antioxidant enzymeactivities and expression of stress-responsive genes upon exposure to droughtstress. Acta Physiol. Plant. 38, 1–12.Bahadur, A., Jin, Z., Jiang, S., Chai, Y., Zhang, Q., Pan, J., et al. (2019a). Arbuscularmycorrhizal spores distribution across diﬀerent ecosystems of Qinghai TibetanPlateau. Pak. J. Bot . 51, 1481–1492.Bahadur, A., Batool, A., Nasir, F., Jiang, S., Mingsen, Q., Zhang, Q., et al. (2019b).Mechanistic insights into arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi-mediated droughtstress tolerance in plants. Int. J. Mol. Sci. 20:4199. doi: 10.3390/ijms20174199Bakr, J., Pék, Z., Helyes, L., and Posta, K. (2018). Mycorrhizal inoculation alleviateswater deﬁcit impact on ﬁeld-grown processing tomato. Pol. J. Environ. Stud. 27,1949–1958.Bao, G., Tang, W., An, Q., Liu, Y., Tian, J., Zhao, N., et al. (2020). Physiologicaleﬀects of the combined stresses of freezing-thawing, acid precipitation anddeicing salt on alfalfa seedlings. BMC Plant Biol. 20:204. doi: 10.1186/s12870-020-02413-4Barros, V., Frosi, G., Santos, M., Ramos, D. G., Falcão, H. M., and Santos,M. G. (2018). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi improve photosynthetic energy useeﬃciency and decrease foliar construction cost under recurrent water deﬁcit inwoody evergreen species. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 127, 469–477. doi: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2018.04.016Bárzana, G., Aroca, R., Bienert, G. P., Chaumont, F., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M. (2014).New insights into the regulation of aquaporins by the arbuscular mycorrhizalsymbiosis in maize plants under drought stress and possible implications forplant performance. Mol. Plant Microbe Interact. 27, 349–363. doi: 10.1094/MPMI-09-13-0268-RBasal, O., Szabó, A., and Veres, S. (2020). PEG-induced drought stress eﬀects onsoybean germination parameters. J. Plant Nutr. 43, 1768–1779.Basu, S., Rabara, R. C., and Negi, S. (2018). AMF: the future prospect for sustainableagriculture. Physiol. Mol. Plant Pathol. 102, 36–45.Bati B. C., Santilli, E., and Lombardo, L. (2015). Eﬀect of arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi on growth and on micronutrient and macronutrient uptake and allocationin olive plantlets growing under high total Mn levels. Mycorrhiza 25, 97–108.doi: 10.1007/s00572-014-0589-0Batool, M., El-Badri, A. M., Hassan, M. U., Haiyun, Y., Chunyun, W., Zhenkun, Y.,et al. (2022a). Drought stress in Brassica napus : eﬀects, tolerance mechanisms,and management strategies. J. Plant Growth Reg . [Preprint].Batool, M., El-Badri, A. M., Wang, Z., Mohamed, I. A., Y ang, H., Ai, X., et al.(2022b). Rapeseed morpho-physio-biochemical responses to drought stressinduced by PEG-6000. Agronomy 12:579.Battini, F., Grønlund, M., Agnolucci, M., Giovannetti, M., and Jakobsen, I.(2017). Facilitation of phosphorus uptake in maize plants by mycorrhizospherebacteria. Sci. Rep. 7:4686. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-04959-0Begum, N., Qin, C., Ahanger, M. A., Raza, S., Khan, M. I., Ashraf, M., et al. (2019b).Role of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in plant growth regulation: implications inabiotic stress tolerance. Front. Plant Sci . 10:1068. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01068Begum, N., Ahanger, M. A., Su, Y., Lei, Y., Mustafa, N. S. A., Ahmad, P., et al.(2019a). Improved drought tolerance by AMF inoculation in maize ( Zea mays )involves physiological and biochemical implications. Plant 8:579. doi: 10.3390/plants8120579Begum, N., Ahanger, M. A., and Zhang, L. (2020). AMF inoculationand phosphorus supplementation alleviates drought induced growth andphotosynthetic decline in Nicotiana tabacum by up-regulating antioxidantmetabolism and osmolyte accumulation. Environ. Exp. Bot. 176:104088.Begum, N., Akhtar, K., Ahanger, M. A., Iqbal, M., Wang, P., Mustafa, N. S., et al.(2021). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi improve growth, essential oil, secondarymetabolism, and yield of tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum L.) under drought stressconditions. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 28, 45276–45295. doi: 10.1007/s11356-021-13755-3Behrooz, A., Vahdati, K., Rejali, F., Lotﬁ, M., Sarikhani, S., and Leslie, C. (2019).Arbuscular mycorrhiza and plant growth-promoting bacteria alleviate droughtstress in walnut. Hortscience 54, 1087–1092.Benaﬀari, W., Boutasknit, A., Anli, M., Ait-El-Mokhtar, M., Ait-Rahou, Y.,Ben-Laouane, R., et al. (2022). The native arbuscular mycorrhizal fungiand vermicompost-based organic amendments enhance soil fertility, growthperformance, and the drought stress tolerance of quinoa. Plant 11:393. doi:10.3390/plants11030393Bi, Y., Xiao, L., and Sun, J. (2019). An arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus amelioratesplant growth and hormones after moderate root damage due to simulatedcoal mining subsidence: a microcosm study. Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res. 26,11053–11061. doi: 10.1007/s11356-019-04559-7Bian, Z., Wang, D., Liu, Y., Xi, Y., Wang, X., and Meng, S. (2021). Analysis ofPopulus glycosyl hydrolase family I members and their potential role in the ABAtreatment and drought stress response. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 163, 178–188.Bogati, K., and Walczak, M. (2022). The impact of drought stress on soil microbialcommunity, enzyme activities and plants. Agronomy 12:189.Boldt, K., Pörs, Y., Haupt, B., Bitterlich, M., Kühn, C., Grimm, B., et al.(2011). Photochemical processes, carbon assimilation and RNA accumulationof sucrose transporter genes in tomato arbuscular mycorrhiza. J. Plant Physiol.168, 1256–1263. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2011.01.026Bonfante, P., and Genre, A. (2010). Mechanisms underlying beneﬁcial plant–fungus interactions in mycorrhizal symbiosis. Nat. Commun . 1:48. doi: 10.1038/ncomms1046Bowles, T. M., Jackson, L. E., and Cavagnaro, T. R. (2018). Mycorrhizal fungienhance plant nutrient acquisition and modulate nitrogen loss with variablewater regimes. Glob. Chang. Biol. 24, e171–e182. doi: 10.1111/gcb.13884Bowne, J. B., Erwin, T. A., Juttner, J., Schnurbusch, T., Langridge, P., Bacic, A.,et al. (2012). Drought responses of leaf tissues from wheat cultivars of diﬀeringdrought tolerance at the metabolite level. Mol. Plant 5, 418–429. doi: 10.1093/mp/ssr114Calvo-Polanco, M., Sánchez-Castro, I., Cantos, M., García, J. L., Azcón, R., Ruiz-Lozano, J. M., et al. (2016). Eﬀects of diﬀerent arbuscular mycorrhizal fungalbackgrounds and soils on olive plants growth and water relation propertiesunder well-watered and drought conditions. Plant Cell Environ. 39, 2498–2514.doi: 10.1111/pce.12807Caravaca, F., Diaz, E., Barea, J. M., Azcón-Aguilar, C., and Roldan, A. (2003).Photosynthetic and transpiration rates of Olea europaea subsp. sylvestris andRhamnus lycioides as aﬀected by water deﬁcit and mycorrhiza. Biol. Plant 46,637–639.Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 14 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 15Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUECavagnaro, T. R. (2015). Biologically regulated nutrient supply systems: compostand arbuscular mycorrhizas—a review. Adv. Agron. 129, 293–321.Cavagnaro, T. R., Gleadow, R. M., and Miller, R. E. (2011). Plant nutrientacquisition and utilisation in a high carbon dioxide world. Funct. Plant Biol .38, 87–96. doi: 10.1071/FP10124Cheng, H. Q., Zou, Y. N., Wu, Q. S., and Ku ˇca, K. (2021). Arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi alleviate drought stress in trifoliate orange by regulating H+-ATPaseactivity and gene expression. Front. Plant Sci. 12:659694. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2021.659694Chien, S. H., Teixeira, L. A., Cantarella, H., Rehm, G. W., Grant, C. A.,and Gearhart, M. M. (2016). Agronomic eﬀectiveness of granularnitrogen/phosphorus fertilizers containing elemental sulfur with and withoutammonium sulfate: a review. Agron. J. 108, 1203–1213.Chitarra, W., Pagliarani, C., Maserti, B., Lumini, E., Siciliano, I., Cascone, P., et al.(2016). Insights on the impact of arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis on tomatotolerance to water stress. Plant Physiol. 171, 1009–1023. doi: 10.1104/pp.16.00307Chowdhury, M. K., Hasan, M. A., Bahadur, M. M., Islam, M., Hakim, M., Iqbal,M. A., et al. (2021). Evaluation of drought tolerance of some wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.) genotypes through phenology, growth, and physiological indices.Agronomy 11:1792.Cozzolino, V., Di Meo, V., Monda, H., Spaccini, R., and Piccolo, A. (2016).The molecular characteristics of compost aﬀect plant growth, arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi, and soil microbial community composition. Biol. Fertil. Soil52, 15–29.Dalal, V. K., and Tripathy, B. C. (2012). Modulation of chlorophyllbiosynthesis by water stress in rice seedlings during chloroplast biogenesis.Plant Cell Environ. 35, 1685–1703. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2012.02520.xDatrindade, R., Almeida, L., Xavier, L., Lins, A. L., Andrade, E. H., Maia, J. G., et al.(2019). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonization promotes changes in thevolatile compounds and enzymatic activity of lipoxygenase and phenylalanineammonia lyase in Piper nigrum L.‘Bragantina’. Plant 8:442. doi: 10.3390/plants8110442Das, D., Basar, N. U., Ullah, H., Salin, K. R., and Datta, A. (2021).Interactive eﬀect of silicon and mycorrhizal inoculation on growth, yieldand water productivity of rice under water-deﬁcit stress. J. Plant Nutr.44, 2756–2769.Deandrade, S. A. L., Domingues, A. P., and Mazzafera, P. (2015). Photosynthesisis induced in rice plants that associate with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi andare grown under arsenate and arsenite stress. Chemosphere 134, 141–149. doi:10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.04.023Diagne, N., Ngom, M., Djighaly, P. I., Fall, D., Hocher, V., and Svistoonoﬀ,S. (2020). Roles of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on plant growth andperformance: importance in biotic and abiotic stressed regulation. Diversity12:370.Djemal, R., and Khoudi, H. (2015). Isolation and molecular characterization ofa novel WIN1/SHN1 ethylene-responsive transcription factor TdSHN1 fromdurum wheat ( Triticum turgidum, L. subsp. durum). Protoplasma 252, 1461–1473. doi: 10.1007/s00709-015-0775-8Dolan, F., Lamontagne, J., Link, R., Hejazi, M., Reed, P., and Edmonds, J. (2021).Evaluating the economic impact of water scarcity in a changing world. Nat.Commun. 12:1915. doi: 10.1038/s41467-021-22194-0Dossa, K., Li, D., Wang, L., Zheng, X., Liu, A., Yu, J., et al. (2017). Transcriptomic,biochemical and physio-anatomical investigations shed more light on responsesto drought stress in two contrasting sesame genotypes. Sci. Rep. 7:8755. doi:10.1038/s41598-017-09397-6Doubková, P., Vlasáková, E., and Sudová, R. (2013). Arbuscular mycorrhizalsymbiosis alleviates drought stress imposed on Knautia arvensis plants inserpentine soil. Plant Soil 370, 149–161.Egamberdieva, D., Wirth, S., and Abd-Allah, E. F. (2018). “Plant hormones as keyregulators in plant-microbe interactions under salt stress, ” in Plant Microbiome:Stress Response , D. Egamberdieva and P. Ahmad (Singapore: Springer), 165–182.Egamberdieva, D., Wirth, S. J., Alqarawi, A. A., Abd-Allah, E. F., and Hashem,A. (2017). Phytohormones and beneﬁcial microbes: essential components forplants to balance stress and ﬁtness. Front. Microbiol 8:2104. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02104El-Badri, A. M., Batool, M., Aa Mohamed, I., Wang, Z., Khatab, A., Sherif, A., et al.(2021). Antioxidative and metabolic contribution to salinity stress responses intwo rapeseed cultivars during the early seedling stage. Antioxidants 10:1227.doi: 10.3390/antiox10081227Eid, M. A., El-hady, M. A. A., Abdelkader, M. A., Abd-Elkrem, Y. M., El-Gabry,Y. A., El-temsah, M. E., et al. (2022). Response in physiological traits andantioxidant capacity of two cotton cultivars under water limitations. Agronomy12:803.Estrada, B., Aroca, R., Barea, J. M., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M. (2013). Nativearbuscular mycorrhizal fungi isolated from a saline habitat improved maizeantioxidant systems and plant tolerance to salinity. Plant Sci. 201, 42–51. doi:10.1016/j.plantsci.2012.11.009Fatima, M., Asgher, M., Masood, A., and Khan, N. A. (2014). Excess sulfursupplementation improves photosynthesis and growth in mustard under saltstress through increased production of glutathione. Environ. Exp. Bot. 107,55–63.Fellbaum, C. R., Gachomo, E. W., Beesetty, Y., Choudhari, S., Strahan, G. D.,Pfeﬀer, P. E., et al. (2012). Carbon availability triggers fungal nitrogen uptakeand transport in arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.109, 2666–2671. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1118650109Feng, Y. L., and Cao, K. F. (2005). Photosynthesis and photoinhibition after nightchilling in seedlings of two tropical tree species grown under three irradiances.Photosynthetica 43, 567–574.Fernandez, C. W., See, C. R., and Kennedy, P. G. (2020). Decelerated carbon cyclingby ectomycorrhizal fungi is controlled by substrate quality and communitycomposition. New Phytol. 226, 569–582. doi: 10.1111/nph.16269Fernández-Lizarazo, J. C., and Moreno-Fonseca, L. P. (2016). Mechanismsfor tolerance to water-deﬁcit stress in plants inoculated with arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi. A review. Agron. Colombon . 34, 179–189. doi: 10.3390/ijms20071769Fiorilli, V., Maghrebi, M., Novero, M., Votta, C., Mazzarella, T., Buﬀoni, B., et al.(2022). Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Symbiosis diﬀerentially aﬀects the nutritionalstatus of two durum wheat genotypes under drought conditions. Plant 11:804.doi: 10.3390/plants11060804Fokom, R., Adamou, S., Essono, D., Ngwasiri, D. P., Eke, P., Mofor, C. T., et al.(2019). Growth, essential oil content, chemical composition and antioxidantproperties of lemongrass as aﬀected by harvest period and arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi in ﬁeld conditions. Ind. Crop. Prod. 138:111477.Foo, E., and Reid, J. B. (2013). Strigolactones: new physiological roles for an ancientsignal. J. Plant Growth Reg. 32, 429–442.Furlan, A., Llanes, A., Luna, V., and Castro, S. (2012). Physiological andbiochemical responses to drought stress and subsequent rehydration in thesymbiotic association peanut-Bradyrhizobium sp. Int. Sch. Res. Notices 2012,890–895.Garg, S. K. (2013). Role and hormonal regulation of nitrate reductase activity inhigher plants: a review. Plant Sci. Feed . 3, 13–20. doi: 10.1007/s11356-021-18232-5Gong, M., Tang, M., Chen, H., Zhang, Q., and Feng, X. (2012). Eﬀects of twoGlomus species on the growth and physiological performance of Sophoradavidii seedlings under water stress. New For. 4, 399–408.Gupta, M. M. (2020). “Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi: the potential soil healthindicators, ” in Soil Health , eds B. Giri and A. Varma (Cham: Springer), 183–195.Hamedani, N. G., Gholamhoseini, M., Bazrafshan, F., Habibzadeh, F., and Amiri,B. (2022). Yield, irrigation water productivity and nutrient uptake of arbuscularmycorrhiza inoculated sesame under drought stress conditions. Agric. WaterManag. 266:107569.Hameed, A., Wu, Q. S., Abd-Allah, E. F., Hashem, A., Kumar, A., Lone, H. A.,et al. (2014). “Role of AM fungi in alleviating drought stress in plants, ” in Useof microbes for the alleviation of soil stresses , M. Miransari (New York, NY:Springer), 55–75.Hao, C., Xia, Z., Fan, R., Tan, L., Hu, L., Wu, B., et al. (2016). De novo transcriptomesequencing of black pepper ( Piper nigrum L.) and an analysis of genes involvedin phenylpropanoid metabolism in response to Phytophthora capsici. BMCGenet. 17:822. doi: 10.1186/s12864-016-3155-7Harkousse, O., Slimani, A., Jadrane, I., Aitboulahsen, M., Mazri, M. A., Zouahri, A.,et al. (2021). Role of local biofertilizer in enhancing the oxidative stress defencesystems of date palm seedling ( Phoenix dactylifera ) against abiotic stress. Appl.Environ. Soil Sci. 2021:6628544. doi: 10.1155/2021/6628544Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 15 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 16Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEHasanuzzaman, M., Nahar, K., Gill, S. S., and Fujita, M. (2013). “Drought stressresponses in plants, oxidative stress, and antioxidant defense, ” in ClimateChange and Plant Abiotic Stress Tolerance , eds N. Tuteja and S. S. Gill (Hoboken,NJ: Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA).Hashem, A., Abd-Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., Al Huqail, A. A., Egamberdieva, D.,and Wirth, S. (2016a). Alleviation of cadmium stress in Solanum lycopersicumL. by arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi via induction of acquired systemic tolerance.Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 23, 272–281. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2015.11.002Hashem, A., Abd-Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., and Egamberdieva, D. (2016b).Bioremediation of adverse impact of cadmium toxicity on Cassia italica Mill byarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 23, 39–47. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2015.11.007Hashem, A., Abd_Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., Aldubise, A., and Egamberdieva, D.(2015). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi enhances salinity tolerance of Panicumturgidum Forssk by altering photosynthetic and antioxidant pathways. J. PlantInteract. 10, 230–242.Hashem, A., Abd-Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., and Egamberdieva, D. (2018).“Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and plant stress tolerance, ” in Plant Microbiome:Stress Response. Microorganisms for Sustainability , eds D. Egamberdieva and P.Ahmad (Singapore: Springer).Hashem, A., Kumar, A., Al-Dbass, A. M., Alqarawi, A. A., Al-Arjani, A. B. F., Singh,G., et al. (2019). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and biochar improves droughttolerance in chickpea. Saudi J. Biol. Sci. 26, 614–624. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2018.11.005Hassan, M. U., Aamer, M., Chattha, M. U., Ullah, M. A., Sulaman, S., Nawaz, M.,et al. (2017). The role of potassium in plants under drought stress: Mini review.J. Basic Appl. Sci. 13, 268–271.Hassan, M. U., Aamer, M., Umer Chattha, M., Haiying, T., Shahzad, B., Barbanti,L., et al. (2020). The critical role of zinc in plants facing the drought stress.Agriculture 10:396.Hassan, M. U., Chattha, M. U., Khan, I., Chattha, M. B., Aamer, M., Nawaz,M., et al. (2019). Nickel toxicity in plants: reasons, toxic eﬀects, tolerancemechanisms, and remediation possibilities-a review. Environ. Sci. Poll. Res. 26,12673–12688. doi: 10.1007/s11356-019-04892-xHassan, M. U., Chattha, M. U., Khan, I., Chattha, M. B., Barbanti, L., Aamer, M.,et al. (2021). Heat stress in cultivated plants: Nature, impact, mechanisms, andmitigation strategies-A review. Plant Biosyst. 155, 211–234.Hazzoumi, Z., Moustakime, Y., and Joutei, K. A. (2015). Eﬀect of arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and water stress on growth, phenolic compounds,glandular hairs, and yield of essential oil in basil ( Ocimum gratissimum L).Chem. Biol. Tech. Agric. 2:10.He, Y., Fang, J., Xu, W., and Shi, P. (2022). Substantial increase of compounddroughts and heatwaves in wheat growing seasons worldwide. Int. J. Climatol.doi: 10.1002/joc.7518Hellal, F. A., El-Shabrawi, H. M., Abd El-Hady, M., Khatab, I. A., El-Sayed, S. A. A.,and Abdelly, C. (2018). Inﬂuence of PEG induced drought stress on molecularand biochemical constituents and seedling growth of Egyptian barley cultivars.J. Genet. Engr. Biotechnol. 16, 203–212. doi: 10.1016/j.jgeb.2017.10.009Herrera-Medina, M. J., Steinkellner, S., Vierheilig, H., Ocampo Bote, J. A., andGarcia Garrido, J. (2007). Abscisic acid determines arbuscule development andfunctionality in the tomato arbuscular mycorrhiza. New Phytol. 175, 554–564.doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2007.02107.xHewedy, O. A., Abdel Lateif, K. S., Seleiman, M. F., Shami, A., Albarakaty, F. M.,and El-Meihy, R. M. (2021). Phylogenetic diversity of Trichoderma strainsand their antagonistic potential against soil-borne pathogens under stressconditions. Biology 9:189. doi: 10.3390/biology9080189Hu, Y., Pandey, A. K., Wu, X., Fang, P., and Xu, P. (2022). The role of arbuscularmycorrhiza fungi in drought tolerance in legume crops: a review. Legume Res.Intern. J. 1:9.Huang, D., Ma, M., Wang, Q., Zhang, M., Jing, G., Li, C., et al. (2020). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi enhanced drought resistance in apple by regulating genesin the MAPK pathway. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 149, 245–255. doi: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2020.02.020Huang, D., Wang, Q., Zhang, Z., Jing, G., Ma, M., Ma, F., et al.(2021). Silencing MdGH3-2/12 in apple reduces drought resistance byregulating AM colonization. Hortic. Res. 8:84. doi: 10.1038/s41438-021-00524-zIgiehon, N. O., Babalola, O. O., Cheseto, X., and Torto, B. (2021). Eﬀects of rhizobiaand arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on yield, size distribution and fatty acid ofsoybean seeds grown under drought stress. Microbiol. Res. 242:126640.Istanbuli, T., Baum, M., Touchan, H., and Hamwieh, A. (2020). Evaluationof morpho-physiological traits under drought stress conditions in barley(Hordeum vulgare L.).Photosynthetica 58, 1059–1067.Jabbari, H., Akbari, G. A., Sima, N. A. K. K., Rad, A. H. S., Alahdadi, I., Hamed,A., et al. (2013). Relationships between seedling establishment and soil moisturecontent for winter and spring rapeseed genotypes. Ind. Crops Prod. 49, 177–187.Jaleel, C. A., Manivannan, P., Kishorekumar, A., Sankar, B., Gopi, R.,Somasundaram, R., et al. (2007). Alterations in osmoregulation, antioxidantenzymes and indole alkaloid levels in Catharanthus roseus exposed to waterdeﬁcit. Coll. Surf. Biointer. 59, 150–157. doi: 10.1016/j.colsurfb.2007.05.001Jayne, B., and Quigley, M. (2014). Inﬂuence of arbuscular mycorrhiza on growthand reproductive response of plants under water deﬁcit: a meta-analysis.Mycorrhiza 24, 109–119. doi: 10.1007/s00572-013-0515-xJin, H., Pfeﬀer, P. E., Douds, D. D., Piotrowski, E., Lammers, P. J., and Shachar-Hill, Y. (2005). The uptake, metabolism, transport and transfer of nitrogen inan arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis. New Phytol. 168, 687–696. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2005.01536.xJinhu, S., Weixiong, W., Rasul, F., Munir, H., Huang, K., Albishi, T. S., et al. (2022).Trehalose induced drought tolerance in plants: Physiological and molecularresponses. Not. Bot. Horti Agrobot. Cluj Napoca 50, 12584–12584.Kamali, S., and Mehraban, A. (2020a). Eﬀects of Nitroxin and arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi on the agro-physiological traits and grain yield of sorghum(Sorghum bicolor L.) under drought stress conditions. PLoS One 15:e0243824.doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0243824Kamali, S., and Mehraban, A. (2020b). Nitroxin and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungialleviate negative eﬀects of drought stress on Sorghum bicolor yield throughimproving physiological and biochemical characteristics. Plant Signal. Behav.15:1813998.Kapoor, R., Evelin, H., Mathur, P., and Giri, B. (2013). “Arbuscular mycorrhiza:approaches for abiotic stress tolerance in crop plants for sustainableagriculture, ” in Plant Acclimation to Environmental Stress , eds N. Tuteja andS. S. Gill (New York, NY: Springer), 359–401.Karagiannidis, N., Thomidis, T., Lazari, D., Panou-Filotheou, E., andKaragiannidou, C. (2011). Eﬀect of three Greek arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi in improving the growth, nutrient concentration, and production ofessential oils of oregano and mint plants. Sci. Hortic. 129, 329–334.Kasote, D. M., Katyare, S. S., Hegde, M. V., and Bae, H. (2015). Signiﬁcance ofantioxidant potential of plants and its relevance to therapeutic applications. Int.J. Boil. Sci. 11:982. doi: 10.7150/ijbs.12096Kenawy, E. R., Rashad, M., Hosny, A., Shendy, S., Gad, D., and Saad-Allah, K. M.(2022). Enhancement of growth and physiological traits under drought stress infaba bean ( Vicia faba L.) using nanocomposite. J. Plant Interact. 17, 404–418.Khan, F., and Hakeem, K. R. (2014). “Cell signaling during drought and salt stress, ”inPlant Signaling: Understanding the Molecular Crosstalk , eds K. R. Hakeem, R.Rehman and I. Tahir (New Delhi: Springer), 227–239.Khan, I., Muhammad, A., Chattha, M. U., Skalicky, M., Bilal Chattha, M., AhsinAyub, M., et al. (2022a). Mitigation of salinity induced oxidative damage,growth and yield reduction in ﬁne rice by sugarcane press-mud application.Front. Plant Sci. 13:840900. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.840900Khan, I., Zafar, H., Chattha, M. U., Mahmood, A., Maqbool, R., Athar, F.,et al. (2022b). Seed priming with diﬀerent agents mitigate alkalinity inducedoxidative damage and improves maize growth. Not. Bot. Horti Agrobot. Cluj-Napoca 50, 12615–12615.Khan, M. N., Zhang, J., Luo, T., Liu, J., Ni, F., Rizwan, M., et al. (2019). Morpho-physiological and biochemical responses of tolerant and sensitive rapeseedcultivars to drought stress during early seedling growth stage. Acta Physiol.Plant. 41:25.Kholová, J., Nepolean, T., Tom, H. C., Supriya, A., Rajaram, V., and Senthilvel,S. (2012). Water saving traits co-map with a major terminal drought tolerancequantitative trait locus in pearl millet [ Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br.]. Mol.Breed. 30, 1337–1353.Koegel, S., Ait-Lahmidi, N., Arnould, C., Chatagnier, O., Walder, F., Ineichen, K.,et al. (2013). The family of ammonium transporters (AMT) in Sorghum bicolor:two AMT members are induced locally, but not systemically in roots colonizedFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 16 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 17Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEby arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. New Phytol. 198, 853–865. doi: 10.1111/nph.12199Kumar, A., and Verma, J. P. (2018). Does plant-microbe interaction confer stresstolerance in plants: a review? Microbiol. Res. 207, 41–52. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2017.11.004Lahbouki, S., Ben-Laouane, R., Anli, M., Boutasknit, A., Ait-Rahou, Y., Ait-El-Mokhtar, M., et al. (2022). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and/or organicamendment enhance the tolerance of prickly pear ( Opuntia ﬁcus-indica ) underdrought stress. J. Arid Environ. 199:104703.Latef, A. A. H. A., Hashem, A., Rasool, S., Abd-Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A.,Egamberdieva, D., et al. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and abioticstress in plants: a review. J. Plant Biol. 59, 407–426.Latini, A., Sperandei, M., Cantale, C., Arcangeli, C., Ammar, K., and Galeﬃ, P.(2013). Variability and expression proﬁle of the DRF1 gene in four cultivars ofdurum wheat and one triticale under moderate water stress conditions. Planta237, 967–978. doi: 10.1007/s00425-012-1816-6Lee, B. R., Muneer, S., Avice, J. C., Jung, W. J., and Kim, T. H. (2012). Mycorrhizalcolonisation and P-supplement eﬀects on N uptake and N assimilationin perennial ryegrass under well-watered and drought-stressed conditions.Mycorrhiza 22, 525–534. doi: 10.1007/s00572-012-0430-6Leifheit-Eva, F., Stavros, D., Veresoglou, A., Lehmann, E., Kathryn, M., andMatthias, C. R. (2014). Multiple factors inﬂuence the role of arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi in soil aggregation—a meta-analysis. Plant Soil 374,523–537.Li, J., Meng, B., Chai, H., Y ang, X., Song, W., Li, S., et al. (2019). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi alleviate drought stress in C 3(Leymus chinensis ) and C 4(Hemarthria altissima ) grasses via altering antioxidant enzyme activities andphotosynthesis. Front. Plant Sci. 10:499. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.00499Li, T., Hu, Y. J., Hao, Z. P., Li, H., Wang, Y. S., and Chen, B. D. (2013). First cloningand characterization of two functional aquaporin genes from an arbuscularmycorrhizal fungus Glomus intraradices. New Phytol. 197, 617–630. doi: 10.1111/nph.12011Li, T., Sun, Y., Ruan, Y., Xu, L., Hu, Y., Hao, Z., et al. (2016). Potential roleof D-myo-inositol-3-phosphate synthase and 14-3-3 genes in the crosstalkbetween Zea mays and Rhizophagus intraradices under drought stress.Mycorrhiza 26, 879–893. doi: 10.1007/s00572-016-0723-2Liang, S.-M., Jiang, D.-J., Xie, M.-M., Zou, Y.-N., Wu, Q.-S., and Ku ˇca, K. (2021).Physiological responses of mycorrhizal symbiosis to drought stress in whiteclover. Not. Bot. Horti Agrobot. Cluj Napoca 49:12209.Liu, C.-Y., Wang, Y.-J., Wu, Q.-S., Y ang, T.-Y., and Ku ˇca, K. (2020). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi improve the antioxidant capacity of tea ( Camellia sinensis )seedlings under drought stress. Not. Bot. Horti Agrobot. Cluj Napoca 48,1993–2005. doi: 10.15835/nbha48412066Liu, D., Wu, L., Naeem, M. S., Liu, H., Deng, X., Xu, L., et al. (2013).5-Aminolevulinic acid enhances photosynthetic gas exchange, chlorophyllﬂuorescence and antioxidant system in oilseed rape under drought stress. ActaPhysiol. Plant 35, 2747–2759.López, J., Kohlen, W., Charnikhova, T., Mulder, P., Undas, A. K., Sergeant, M. K.,et al. (2010). Does abscisic acid aﬀect strigolactone biosynthesis? New Phytol.187, 343–354. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-8137.2010.03291.xLudwig-Müller, J. (2010). “Hormonal responses in host plants triggered byarbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, ” in Arbuscular Mycoorrhizas: Physiology andFunction , eds H. Koltai and Y. Kapulnik (Dordrecht: Springer.), 169–190. doi:10.1016/j.pbi.2009.06.001Luo, L., Wang, H., Liu, X., Hu, J., Zhu, X., Pan, S., et al. (2018). Strigolactonesaﬀect the translocation of nitrogen in rice. Plant Sci. 270, 190–197. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2018.02.020Ma, P., Bai, T. H., and Ma, F. W. (2015). Eﬀects of progressive drought onphotosynthesis and partitioning of absorbed light in apple trees. J. Integr. Agric.14, 681–690.Ma, X. L., Wang, Y. J., Xie, S. L., Wang, C., and Wang, W. (2007). Glycinebetaineapplication ameliorates negative eﬀects of drought stress in tobacco. Russ. J.Plant Physiol. 54:472.Mamnabi, S., Nasrollahzadeh, S., Ghassemi-Golezani, K., and Raei, Y. (2020).Improving yield-related physiological characteristics of spring rapeseed byintegrated fertilizer management under water deﬁcit conditions. Saudi J. Biol.Sci.27, 797–804. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2020.01.008Mandal, S. M., Chakraborty, D., and Dey, S. (2010). Phenolic acids act as signalingmolecules in plant-microbe symbioses. Plant Signal. Behav. 5, 359–368. doi:10.4161/psb.5.4.10871Manoharan, P. T., Shanmugaiah, V., Balasubramanian, N., Go-mathinayagam,S., Sharma, M. P., and Muthuchelian, K. (2010). Inﬂuence of AM fungi onthe growth and physiological status of Erythrina variegata Linn. grown underdiﬀerent water stress conditions. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 46, 151–156.Mathur, S., Tomar, R. S., and Jajoo, A. (2019). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF)protects photosynthetic apparatus of wheat under drought stress. Photosynth.Res. 139, 227–238.Maurel, C., Boursiac, Y., Luu, D. T., Santoni, V., Shahzad, Z., and Verdoucq, L.(2015). Aquaporins in plants. Physiol. Rev. 95, 1321–1358.Meddich, A., Jaiti, F., Bourzik, W., El-Asli, A., and Haﬁdi, M. (2015). Use ofmycorrhizal fungi as a strategy for improving the drought tolerance in datepalm ( Phoenix dactylifera ).Sci. Hortic. 192, 468–474.Mehmood, M., Khan, I., Chattha, M. U., Hussain, S., Ahmad, N., Aslam, M. T., et al.(2021). Thiourea application protects maize from drought stress by regulatinggrowth and physiological traits. Pak. J. Sci. 73, 355–363.Mensah, J. A., Koch, A. M., Antunes, P. M., Kiers, E. T., Hart, M., and Bücking,H. (2015). High functional diversity within species of arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi is associated with diﬀerence in phosphate and nitrogen uptake andfungal phosphate metabolism. Mycorrhiza 25, 533–546. doi: 10.1007/s00572-015-0631-xMiransari, M., Bahrami, H. A., Rejali, F., Malakouti, M. J., and Torabi, H. (2007).Using arbuscular mycorrhiza to reduce the stressful eﬀects ofsoil compactionon corn ( Zea mays L.) growth. Soil Biol. Biochem. 39, 2014–2026.Mirshad, P. P., and Puthur, J. T. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhizal associationenhances drought tolerance potential of promising bioenergy grass ( Saccharumarundinaceum retz). Environ. Monit. Assess. 188:425. doi: 10.1007/s10661-016-5428-7Mirzai, M., Moeini, A., and Ghanati, F. (2013). Eﬀects of drought stress on the lipidperoxidation and antioxidant enzyme activities in two canola ( Brassica napusL.) cultivars. J. Agri. Sci. Tech. 15, 593–602.Mo, Y., Wang, Y., Y ang, R., Zheng, J., Liu, C., Li, H., et al. (2016). Regulationof plant growth, photosynthesis, antioxidation and osmosis by an arbuscularmycorrhizal fungus in watermelon seedlings under well-watered and droughtconditions. Front. Plant Sci. 7:644. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.00644Mohanta, T. K., Bashir, T., Hashem, A., and Abd-Allah, E. F. (2017). Systemsbiology approach in plant abiotic stresses. Plant Physiol. Biochem. 121, 58–73.Mona, S. A., Hashem, A., Abd-Allah, E. F., Alqarawi, A. A., Soliman, D. W. K.,Wirth, S., et al. (2017). Increased resistance of drought by Trichodermaharzianum fungal treatment correlates with increased secondary metabolitesand proline content. J. Integr. Agric. 16, 1751–1757.Moradtalab, N., Hajiboland, R., Aliasgharzad, N., Hartmann, T. E., and Neumann,G. (2019). Silicon and the association with an arbuscular-mycorrhizal fungus(Rhizophagus clarus ) mitigate the adverse eﬀects of drought stress onstrawberry. Agronomy 9:41.Moshelion, M., Halperin, O., Wallach, R., Oren, R., and Way, D. A. (2015). Role ofaquaporins in determining transpiration and photosynthesis in water-stressedplants: Crop water-use eﬃciency, growth and yield. Plant Cell Environ. 38,1785–1793. doi: 10.1111/pce.12410Neumann, E., Schmid, B., Romheld, V., and George, E. (2009). Extraradicaldevelopment and contribution to plant performance of an arbuscularmycorrhizal symbiosis exposed to complete or partial rootzone drying.Mycorrhiza 20, 3–23. doi: 10.1007/s00572-009-0259-9Nishida, H., and Suzaki, T. (2018). Nitrate-mediated control of root nodulesymbiosis. Curr. Opin. Plant Biol. 44, 129–136. doi: 10.1016/j.pbi.2018.04.006Oldroyd, G. E. D., and Speak, F. (2013). Signalling systems that promote beneﬁcialsymbiotic associations in plants. Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 11, 252–263. doi: 10.1038/nrmicro2990Opik, M., Zobel, M., Cantero, J. J., Davison, J., Facelli, J. M., Hiiesalu, I.,et al. (2013). Global sampling of plant roots expands the described moleculardiversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Mycorrhiza 23, 411–430. doi: 10.1007/s00572-013-0482-2Ortas, I., Raﬁque, M., and Çekiç, F. Ö (2021). “Do Mycorrhizal Fungi enable plantsto cope with abiotic stresses by overcoming the detrimental eﬀects of salinityFrontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 17 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 18Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEand improving drought tolerance?, ” in Symbiotic Soil Microorganisms , eds N.Shrivastava, S. Mahajan, and A. Varma (Cham: Springer), 391–428.Osakabe, Y., Nishikubo, N., and Osakabe, K. (2007). Phenylalanine ammonia-lyasein woody plants: a key switch of carbon accumulation in biomass. Jpn. J. PlantSci.1, 103–108.Ouledali, S., Ennajeh, M., Zrig, A., Gianinazzi, S., and Khemira, H. (2018).Estimating the contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to droughttolerance of potted olive trees ( Olea europaea ).Acta Physiol. Plant 40:81.Pauwels, R., Jansa, J., Püschel, D., Müller, A., Graefe, J., and Kolb, S. (2020).Root growth and presence of Rhizophagus irregularis distinctly alter substratehydraulic properties in a model system with Medicago truncatula .Plant Soil457, 131–151.Pavithra, D., and Y apa, N. (2018). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi inoculationenhances drought stress tolerance of plants. Groundw. Sustain. Dev. 7, 490–494.Per, T. S., Khan, N. A., Masood, A., and Fatma, M. (2016). Methyl jasmonatealleviates cadmium-induced photosynthetic damages through increasedS-assimilation and glutathione production in mustard. Front. Plant Sci. 7:1933.doi: 10.3389/fpls.2016.01933Porcel, R., Aroca, R., Azcón, R., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M. (2005). PIP aquaporingene expression in arbuscular mycorrhizal Glycine max and Lactuca sativaplants in relation to drought stress tolerance. Plant Mol. Biol. 60, 389–404.doi: 10.1007/s11103-005-4210-yPour, A. A., Mohammadi, R., Etminan, A., Shooshtari, L., Maleki-Tabrizi, N., andPoczai, P. (2020). Eﬀects of drought stress on some agronomic and morpho-physiological traits in durum wheat genotypes. Sustainability 12:5610.Pozo, M. J., Lopez-Raez, J. A., Azcon-Aguilar, C., and Garcia-Garrido, J. M. (2015).Phytohormones as integrators of environmental signals in the regulationof mycorrhizal symbioses. New Phytol. 205, 1431–1436. doi: 10.1111/nph.13252Prabha, C., and Sharadamma, N. (2019). Arbuscular mycorrhizal inﬂuence onoxidative stress in French bean ( Phaseolus vulgaris ) under drought conditions.GSC Biol. Pharm. Sci. 7, 021–029.Qari, S. H., Hassan, M. U., Chattha, M. U., Mahmood, A., Naqve, M., Nawaz,M., et al. (2022). Melatonin induced cold tolerance in plants: physiological andmolecular responses. Front. Plant Sci. 13:843071. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2022.843071Quiroga, G., Erice, G., Aroca, R., Chaumont, F., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M. (2019a).Contribution of the arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis to the regulation of radialroot water transport in maize plants under water deﬁcit. Environ. Exp. Bot.167:103821.Quiroga, G., Erice, G., Ding, L., Chaumont, F., Aroca, R., and Ruiz-Lozano, J. M.(2019b). The arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis regulates aquaporins activityand improves root cell water permeability in maize plants subjected to waterstress. Plant Cell Environ. 42, 2274–2290.Rapparini, F., and Peñuelas, J. (2014). “Mycorrhizal fungi to alleviate drought stresson plant growth, ” in Use of Microbes for the Alleviation of Soil Stresses , ed. M.Miransari (New York, NY: Springer.), 21–42.Rehman, S., Chattha, M. U., Khan, I., Mahmood, A., Hassan, M. U., Al-Huqail, A. A., et al. (2022). Exogenously applied trehalose augments cadmiumstress tolerance and yield of mung bean ( Vigna radiata L.) grown insoil and hydroponic systems through reducing Cd uptake and enhancingphotosynthetic eﬃciency and antioxidant defense systems. Plants 11:822. doi:10.3390/plants11060822Ren, A. T., Zhu, Y., Chen, Y. L., Ren, H. X., Li, J. Y., Abbott, L. K., et al. (2019).Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus alters root-sourced signal (abscisic acid) forbetter drought acclimation in Zea mays L. seedlings. Environ. Exp. Bot. 167,103–824.Rillig, M. C., Wright, S. F., Nichols, K. A., Schmidt, W. F., and Torn, M. S. (2001).Large contribution of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi to soil carbon pools intropical forest soils. Plant Soil 233, 167–177.Rosolem, Ciro, A., Ritz, K., Cantarella, H., Galdos, M. V., Hawkesford, M. J., et al.(2017). “Enhanced plant rooting and crop system management for improvedN use eﬃciency, ” in Advances in Agronomy , ed. D. L. Sparks (Cambridge, MA:Academic Press).Ruíz-Sánchez, M., Armada, E., Muñoz, E., García-de-Salamone, I. E., Aroca, R.,Ruíz-Lozano, J. M., et al. (2011). Azospirillum and arbuscular mycorrhizalcolonization enhance rice growth and physiological traits under well-wateredand drought conditions. J. Plant Physiol. 168, 1031–1037. doi: 10.1016/j.jplph.2010.12.019Rydlová, J., and Püschel, D. (2020). Arbuscular mycorrhiza, but not hydrogel,alleviates drought stress of ornamental plants in peat-based substrate. Appl. SoilEcol. 146, 103–394.Sabra, A., Daayf, F., and Renault, S. (2012). Diﬀerential physiological andbiochemical responses of three Echinacea species to salinity stress. Sci. Hort.135, 23–31.Sadok, W., and Sinclair, T. R. (2010). Transpiration response of slow-wilting andcommercial soybean ( Glycine max (L.) Merr.) genotypes to three aquaporininhibitors. J. Exp. Bot. 61, 821–829. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erp350Sakurai, I. J., Murai-Hatano, M., Hayashi, H., Ahamed, A., Fukushi, K., andMatsumoto, T. (2011). Transpiration from shoots triggers diurnal changes inroot aquaporin expression. Plant Cell Environ. 34, 1150–1163. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2011.02313.xSánchez, R. B., Calvo-Polanco, M., Ruiz-Lozano, J. M., Zamarreño, ÁM., Arbona,V., García-Mina, J. M., et al. (2018). Involvement of the def-1 mutation inthe response of tomato plants to arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis under well-watered and drought conditions. Plant Cell Physiol. 59, 248–261. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcx178Sánchez-Blanco, M. J., Ferrández, T., Morales, M. A., Morte, A., andAlarcón, J. J. (2004). Variations in water status, gas exchange, and growthin Rosmarinus oﬃcinalis plants infected with Glomus deserticola underdrought conditions. J. Plant Physiol. 161, 675–182. doi: 10.1078/0176-1617-01191Sanchez-Romera, B., Ruiz-Lozano, J. M., Zamarreno, A. M., Garcia-Mina, J. M.,and Aroca, R. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosis and methyl jasmonateavoid the inhibition of root hydraulic conductivity caused by drought.Mycorrhiza 26, 111–122. doi: 10.1007/s00572-015-0650-7Santander, C., Aroca, R., Ruiz-Lozano, J. M., Olave, J., Cartes, P., Borie,F., et al. (2017). Arbuscular mycorrhiza eﬀects on plant performanceunder osmotic stress. Mycorrhiza 27, 639–657. doi: 10.1007/s00572-017-0784-xSayer, E. J., Crawford, J. A., Edgerley, J., Askew, A. P., Hahn, C. Z., Whitlock, R.,et al. (2021). Adaptation to chronic drought modiﬁes soil microbial communityresponses to phytohormones. Commun. Biol. 4:516. doi: 10.1038/s42003-021-02037-wScheibe, R., and Dietz, K. J. (2012). Reduction–oxidation network for ﬂexibleadjustment of cellular metabolism in photoautotrophic cells Plant. Cell Environ.35, 202–216. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3040.2011.02319.xSeto, Y., Kameoka, H., Y amaguchi, S., and Kyozuka, J. (2012). Recent advancesin strigolactone research: Chemical and biological aspects. Plant Cell Physiol.53:1843. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcs142Seutra, K. J., Abunyewa, A. A., Kugbe, J., Kwashie, G. K., Owusu, A. E., andAndoh, H. (2021). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and potassium fertilizer asplant biostimulants and alternative research for enhancing plants adaptationto drought stress: Opportunities for enhancing drought tolerance in cocoa(Theobroma cacao L.).Sustain. Environ. 7:1963927.Shaﬁq, S., Akram, N. A., Ashraf, M., and Arshad, A. (2014). Synergistic eﬀects ofdrought and ascorbic acid on growth, mineral nutrients and oxidative defensesystem in canola ( Brassica napus L.) plants. Acta Physiol. Plant. 36, 1539–1553.Sheteiwy, M. S., Ali, D. F. I., Xiong, Y. C., Brestic, M., Skalicky, M., Hamoud,Y. A., et al. (2021). Physiological and biochemical responses of soybeanplants inoculated with Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Bradyrhizobiumunder drought stress. BMC Plant Biol. 21:195. doi: 10.1186/s12870-021-02949-zVarinderpal-Singh, V., Sharma, S., Kunal, Gosal, S. K., Choudhary, R., Singh,R., et al. (2020). Synergistic use of plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria,arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, and spectral properties for improving nutrientuse eﬃciencies in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.).Commun. Soil Sci. Plant Anal.51, 14–27.Smith, S. E., Facelli, E., Pope, S., and Smith, F. A. (2010). Plant performance instressful environments: interpreting new and established knowledge of the rolesof arbuscular mycorrhizas. Plant Soil 326, 3–20.Smith, S. E., Jakobsen, I., Grnlund, M., and Smith, F. A. (2011). Rolesof arbuscular mycorrhizas in plant phosphorus nutrition: interactionsbetween pathways of phosphorus uptake in arbuscular mycorrhizal rootshave important implications for understanding and manipulating plantphosphorus acquisition. Plant Physiol. 156, 1050–1057. doi: 10.1104/pp.111.174581Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 18 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 19Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUESochacki, P., Ward, J. R., and Cruzan, M. B. (2013). Consequences of mycorrhizalcolonization for Piriqueta morphotypes under drought stress. Int. J. Plant Sci.174, 65–73.Shaﬁghi, A., Ardakani, M. R., Rad, A. H. S., Alavifazel, M., and Raﬁei, F. (2021).Grain yield and associated physiological traits of rapeseed ( Brassica napus L.)cultivars under diﬀerent planting dates and drought stress at the ﬂowering stage.Ital. J. Agron. 16:1648. doi: 10.4081/ija.2020.1648Steinkellner, S., Lendzemo, V., Langer, I., Schweiger, P., Khaosaad, T., Toussaint,J. P., et al. (2007). Flavonoids and strigolactones in root exudates as signals insymbiotic and pathogenic plant-fungus interactions. Molecules 12, 1290–1306.doi: 10.3390/12071290Sultan, I., Khan, I., Chattha, M. U., Hassan, M. U., Barbanti, L., Calone, R., et al.(2021). Improved salinity tolerance in early growth stage of maize throughsalicylic acid foliar application. Ita. J. Agron. 16:1810.Sykorova, Z., Ineichen, K., Wiemken, A., and Redecker, D. (2007). The cultivationbias: diﬀerent communities of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi detected inroots from the ﬁeld, from bait plants transplanted to the ﬁeld, and from agreenhouse trap experiment. Mycorrhiza 18, 1–14. doi: 10.1007/s00572-007-0147-0Tajini, F., Trabelsi, M., and Drevon, J. J. (2011). Co-inoculation with Glomusintraradices and Rhizobium tropici CIAT899 increases P use eﬃciency for N 2ﬁxation in the common bean ( Phaseolus vulgaris L.) under P deﬁciency inhydroaeroponic culture. Symbiosis 53, 123–129.Tejeda, M., Martínez, O., Vega, D. L., and Délano-Frier, J. P. (2008).Jasmonic acid inﬂuences mycorrhizal colonization in tomato plantsby modifying the expression of genes involved in carbohydratepartitioning. Physiol. Plant 133, 339–353. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-3054.2008.01081.xTharanya, M., Kholova, J., Sivasakthi, K., Seghal, D., Hash, C. T., and Raj, B. (2018).Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for water use and crop production traits co-locatewith major QTL for tolerance to water deﬁcit in a ﬁne-mapping population ofpearl millet ( Pennisetum glaucum L. R.Br.). Theor. Appl. Genet. 131, 1509–1529.doi: 10.1007/s00122-018-3094-6Tian, H., Gai, J. P., Zhang, J. L., Christie, P., and Li, X. L. (2009). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi associated with wild forage plants in typical steppe of easternInner Mongolia. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 45, 321–332.Tereucán, G., Ruiz, A., Nahuelcura, J., Oyarzún, P., Santander, C., Winterhalter,P., et al. (2022). Shifts in biochemical and physiological responses by theinoculation of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in Triticum aestivum growingunder drought conditions. J. Sci. Food Agric. 102, 1927–1938.Turrini, A., Bedini, A., Loor, M. B., Santini, G., Sbrana, C., and Giovannetti, M.(2018). Local diversity of native arbuscular mycorrhizal symbionts diﬀerentiallyaﬀects growth and nutrition of three crop plant species. Biol. Fertil. Soils 54,203–217.Vadez, V., Kholova, J., Zaman-Allah, M., and Belko, N. (2013). Water: The mostimportant “molecular” component of water stress tolerance research. Funct.Plant Biol. 40, 1310–1322. doi: 10.1071/FP13149Varinderpal, S., Kaur, S., Singh, J., Kaur, A., and Gupta, R. K. (2021).Rescheduling fertilizer nitrogen topdressing timings for improving productivityand mitigating N 2O emissions in timely and late sown irrigated wheat ( Triticumaestivum L.).Arch. Agron. Soil Sci. 67, 647–659.Veresoglou, S., Chen, B., and Rillig, M. C. (2011). Arbuscular mycorrhiza and soilnitrogen cycling. Soil Biol. Biochem. 46, 53–62.Verma, N., Tarafdar, J. C., Srivastava, K. K., and Panwar, J. (2008). Arbuscularmycorrhizal (AM) diversity in Prosopis cineraria (L.) Druce under aridagroecosystems. Agric. Sci. China 7, 754–761.Verzeaux, J., Hirel, B., Dubois, F., Peter Lee, J., and Tetu, T. (2017). Agriculturalpractices to improve nitrogen use eﬃciency through the use of arbuscularmycorrhizae: Basic and agronomic aspects. Plant Sci . 264, 48–56. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2017.08.004Vishwakarma, N., Upadhyay, N., Kumar, G., Y adav, J., Singh, R. K., Mishra, V.,et al. (2017). Abscisic acid signaling and abiotic stress tolerance in plants: areview on current knowledge and future prospects. Front. Plant Sci. 8:161.doi: 10.3389/fpls.2017.00161Wang, Y., Lin, J., Y ang, F., Tao, S., Y an, X., Zhou, Z., et al. (2022). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi improve the growth and performance in the seedlings ofLeymus chinensis under alkali and drought stresses. PeerJ 10:12890. doi: 10.7717/peerj.12890Weng, M., Cui, L., Liu, F., Zhang, M., Shan, L., Y ang, S., et al. (2015). Eﬀectsof drought stress on antioxidant enzymes in seedlings of diﬀerent wheatgenotypes. Pak. J. Bot. 47, 49–45.Wilmowicz, E., Ku ´cko, A., Goli ´nska, P., Burchardt, S., Przywieczerski, T.,´Swidzi ´nski, M., et al. (2020). Abscisic acid and ethylene in the control of nodule-speciﬁc response on drought in yellow lupine. Environ. Exp. Bot. 169:103900.Wu, H. H., Zou, Y. N., Rahman, M. M., Ni, D., and Wu, Q. S. (2017). Mycorrhizasalter sucrose and proline metabolism in trifoliate orange exposed to droughtstress. Sci. Rep. 7:42389. doi: 10.1038/srep42389Wu, Q. S., Srivastava, A. K., and Zou, Y. N. (2013). AMF-induced tolerance todrought stress in citrus: A review. Sci. Hortic. 164, 77–87.Wu, Q. S., Xia, R. X., and Zou, Y. N. (2008). Improved soil structure and citrusgrowth after inoculation with three arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi under droughtstress. Eur. J. Soil Biol. 44, 122–128.Wu, Q. S., and Zou, Y. N. (2017). “Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and toleranceof drought stress in plants, ” in Arbuscular Mycorrhizas and Stress Tolerance ofPlants , ed. Q. S. Wu (singapore: springer), 25–41.Xie, W., Hao, Z., Zhou, X., Jiang, X., Xu, L., Wu, S., et al. (2018). Arbuscularmycorrhiza facilitates the accumulation of glycyrrhizin and liquiritin inGlycyrrhiza uralensis under drought stress. Mycorrhiza 28, 285–300. doi: 10.1007/s00572-018-0827-yXing, Y., Jiang, W., He, X., Fiaz, S., Ahmad, S., Lei, X., et al. (2019). A review ofnitrogen translocation and nitrogen-use eﬃciency. J. Plant Nutr. 42, 2624–2641.Xu, L., Li, T., Wu, Z., Feng, H., Yu, M., Zhang, X., et al. (2018).Arbuscular mycorrhiza enhances drought tolerance of tomato plants byregulating the 14-3-3 genes in the ABA signaling pathway. Appl. Soil Ecol.125, 213–221.Y ang, X., Lu, M., Wang, Y., Wang, Y., Liu, Z., and Chen, S. (2021). Responsemechanism of plants to drought stress. Horticulturae 7:50.Y ang, Y., Han, X., Liang, Y., Ghosh, A., Chen, J., and Tang, M. (2015). Thecombined eﬀects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and lead (Pb) stresson Pb accumulation, plant growth parameters, photosynthesis, and antioxidantenzymes in Robinia pseudoacacia L.PLoS One 10:e0145726. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0145726Y ang, Q., Zhao, Z., Bai, Z., Hou, H., Yuan, Y., Guo, A., et al. (2019). Eﬀects ofmycorrhizae and water conditions on perennial ryegrass growth in rare earthtailings. RSC Adv. 9, 10881–10888.Yooyongwech, S., Phaukinsang, N., Cha-um, S., and Supaibulwatana, K.(2013). Arbuscular mycorrhiza improved growth performance in Macadamiatetraphylla L. grown under water deﬁcit stress involves soluble sugar and prolineaccumulation. Plant Growth Reg. 69, 285–293.You, J., Zhang, Y., Liu, A., Li, D., Wang, X., Dossa, K., et al. (2019).Transcriptomic and metabolomic proﬁling of drought-tolerant and susceptiblesesame genotypes in response to drought stress. BMC Plant Biol. 19:267. doi:10.1186/s12870-019-1880-1Zarea, M. J., Karimi, N., Goltapeh, E. M., and Ghalavand, A. (2011). Eﬀect ofcropping systems and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi on soil microbial activityand root nodule nitrogenase. J. Saudi Soc. Agric. Sci. 10, 109–120.Zhang, F., Zou, Y. N., and Wu, Q. S. (2018). Quantitative estimation of wateruptake by mycorrhizal extraradical hyphae in citrus under drought stress. Sci.Hortic. 229, 132–136.Zhang, F., Jia-Dong, H. E., Qiu-Dan, N. I., Qiang-Sheng, W. U., and Zou, Y. N.(2018b). Enhancement of drought tolerance in trifoliate orange by mycorrhiza:changes in root sucrose and proline metabolisms. Not. Bot. Horti. Agrobot.Cluj-Napoca 46:270.Zhang, F., Zou, Y. N., Wu, Q. S., and Ku-ca, K. (2020). Arbuscular mycorrhizasmodulate root polyamine metabolism to enhance drought tolerance of trifoliateorange. Environ. Exp. Bot. 171:103926.Zhang, F. J., Zhang, K. K., Du, C. Z., Li, J., Xing, Y. X., Y ang, L. T., et al. (2015).Eﬀect of drought stress on anatomical structure and chloroplast ultrastructurein leaves of sugarcane. Sugar. Tech. 17, 41–48.Zhang, H. H., Tang, M., Chen, H., Zheng, C. L., and Niu, Z. C. (2010). Eﬀect ofinoculation with AM fungi on lead uptake, translocation and stress alleviationofZea mays L. seedlings planting in soil with increasing lead concentrations.Eur. J. Soil Biol. 46, 306–311.Zhang, Z., Zhang, J., Xu, G., Zhou, L., and Li, Y. (2019). Arbuscular mycorrhizalfungi improve the growth and drought tolerance of Zenia insignis seedlingsunder drought stress. New For. 50, 593–604.Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 19 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166fpls-13-919166 June 30, 2022 Time: 15:7 # 20Tang et al. AMF Improves Drought Tolerance and NUEZhao, R., Guo, W., Bi, N., Guo, J., Wang, L., Zhao, J., et al. (2015). Arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi aﬀect the growth, nutrient uptake and water status of maize(Zea mays L.) grown in two types of coal mine spoils under drought stress. Appl.Soil Ecol. 88, 41–49.Zhou, Q., Ravnskov, S., Jiang, D., and Wollenweber, B. (2015). Changes incarbon and nitrogen allocation, growth and grain yield induced by arbuscularmycorrhizal fungi in wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.) subjected to a period of waterdeﬁcit. Plant Growth Reg. 75, 751–760.Zhu, X., Song, F., Liu, S., and Liu, F. (2016). Arbuscular mycorrhiza improvegrowth, nitrogen uptake, and nitrogen use eﬃciency in wheat grownunder elevated CO 2.Mycorrhiza 26, 133–140. doi: 10.1007/s00572-015-0654-3Zhu, X. Q., Tang, M., and Zhang, H. Q. (2017). Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungienhanced the growth, photosynthesis, and caloriﬁc value of black locust undersalt stress. Photosynthetica 55, 378–385.Zhao, B., Ma, B. L., Hu, Y., and Liu, J. (2021). Source–sink adjustment: amechanistic understanding of the timing and severity of drought stress onphotosynthesis and grain yields of two contrasting oat ( Avena sativa L.)genotypes. J. Plant Growth Regul. 40, 263–276.Zou, Y. N., Srivastava, A. K., Ni, Q. D., and Wu, Q. S. (2015). Disruption ofmycorrhizal extraradical mycelium and changes in leaf water status and soilaggregate stability in rootbox-grown trifoliate orange. Front. Microbiol. 6:203.doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2015.00203Zou, Y. N., Wu, Q. S., Huang, Y. M., Ni, Q. D., and He, X. H. (2013). Mycorrhizal-mediated lower proline accumulation in Poncirus trifoliata under water deﬁcitderives from the integration of inhibition of proline synthesis with increaseof proline degradation. PLoS One 8:e80568. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0080568Conﬂict of Interest: The authors declare that the research was conducted in theabsence of any commercial or ﬁnancial relationships that could be construed as apotential conﬂict of interest.Publisher’s Note: All claims expressed in this article are solely those of the authorsand do not necessarily represent those of their aﬃliated organizations, or those ofthe publisher, the editors and the reviewers. Any product that may be evaluated inthis article, or claim that may be made by its manufacturer, is not guaranteed orendorsed by the publisher.Copyright © 2022 Tang, Hassan, Feng, Nawaz, Shah, Qari, Liu and Miao. This is anopen-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons AttributionLicense (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted,provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that theoriginal publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academicpractice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not complywith these terms.Frontiers in Plant Science | www.frontiersin.org 20 July 2022 | Volume 13 | Article 919166