REVIEW ARTICLEUnderstanding the joint impacts of soil architecture andmicrobial dynamics on soil functions: Insights derived frommicroscale modelsValérie Pot1| Xavier Portell2,3| Wilfred Otten2| Patricia Garnier1|Olivier Monga4| Philippe C. Baveye11Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE,AgroParisTech, UMR EcoSys, Thiverval-Grignon, France2School of Water, Energy andEnvironment, Cranfield University,Cranfield, UK3Departamento de Ciencias, IS-FOOD,Universidad Pública de Navarra,Pamplona, Spain4IRD, UMI UMMISCO, Bondy, FranceCorrespondenceValérie Pot, Université Paris-Saclay,INRAE, AgroParisTech, UMR EcoSys,Thiverval-Grignon, France.Email:valerie.pot@inrae.frFunding informationAgence Nationale de la Recherche, Grant/Award Number: ANR-15-CE01-0006;European Union - NextGenerationEU,Grant/Award Number: Ayuda para laRecualificaci /C19on del Sistema Univers;National Environment Research Council,Grant/Award Numbers: NE/P014208/1,NE/S004920/1AbstractOver the last decades, a new generat ion of microscale models has beendeveloped to simulate soil microbial ac tivity. An earlier article (Pot et al.,2021) presented a detailed review of the description of soil architecture andmicrobial dynamics in these models. I n the present article, we summarisethe main results obtained by these models according to six model outputs:growth and spatial organisation of mic robial colonies, soil hydraulic con-ductivity, coexistence and trophic int eractions of microor ganisms, temporaldynamics of the amount of solid and dissolved organic matter in soil and,microbial production of CO2. For each of these outputs, we draw particularattention to the respective roles of soi l architecture and microbial dynamics,and we report how microscale models al low for disentangling and quantify-ing them. We finally discuss limitations and future directions of microscalemodels in combination with the on-going development of high-performance imaging tools revealing the spatial heterogeneity of the actorsof soil microbial activity.HighlightsWe review the insights on soil functions derived from microscale models ofsoil microbial processes.Microscale models disentangle the complex interactions between soil archi-tecture and microbial dynamics.Spatial accessibility of resources to microbes, growth and ecological interac-tions are key factors in soil functions.Translation of knowledge of interactions at the microscopic scale into largerscales is still in its infancy.KEYWORDSbacteria models, ecological interactions, fungi models, soil organic matter, spatialaccessibilityReceived: 25 January 2022 Revised: 29 April 2022 Accepted: 13 May 2022DOI: 10.1111/ejss.13256Eur J Soil Sci. 2022;73:e13256. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/ejss © 2022 British Society of Soil Science. 1o f2 2https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.132561|INTRODUCTIONIn the last two decades, a new generation of microscalemodels of soil microbial activity has been developed(e.g., Baveye et al., 2018 ; König et al., 2020 ; Potet al., 2021 ). These models describe soil architecture at asmall scale (from a few μm3to a few cm3), as well as theheterogeneous distribution in it of trophic resources andmicroorganisms, and they account for soil-borne pro-cesses at the scale of soil microhabitats (Pot et al.,2021).In so doing, microscale models make it possible for users,through modelling scenarios, to explore the role ofphysico-chemical gradients and spatial accessibility oftrophic resources to decomposers on soil microbialactivity.In Pot et al. (2021), we reviewed in detail how micro-bial dynamics and soil architecture are described in micro-scale models. Microscale models are defined by acomputing grid of node size ranging between 1 μm3and 1mm3where the physico-chemical environment, microor-ganisms, trophic resources and microbial products arespatialized. Box1visually depicts and explains how suchmodels are used while Box 2details an example of the useof the microscale model of Portell et al. ( 2018). In a nut-shell, microscale models generally consider an explicit rep-resentation of microbial growth instead of a black-boxapproach that is widely adopted in the broader soil-relatedliterature (e.g., Wieder et al.,2015). Measurable soilorganic pools representing plant residues based on theirdegree of polymerisation (non-labile polymers, labilemonomers), biomass, and biomass by-products (metabo-lites, enzymes, glue agents, exo-polymeric substances) aredescribed (e.g., Gras et al.,2011) rather than lumpedorganic matter (OM) pools based on their different degreeof chemical recalcitrance to degradation. Most of themicroscale models consider a depolymerization step beforethe dissolved OM can be taken up (e.g., Allison,2005;Pagel et al., 2020;Z e c he ta l . , 2022), and this step can becontrolled by the production of enzymes by microbes(e.g., Wang & Allison, 2019). Other models also includecomplex ecological interactions like commensalism, com-petition, mutualism (e.g., Folse III & Allison,2012;Wang & Or, 2014), fungal deadlock, intermingling, orr e p l a c e m e n t( e . g . ,F a l c o n e re ta l . , 2008), or bacterial dis-persion through ‘fungal highway ’(e.g., Banitz et al., 2011,2016). Three-dimensional images of soil architecture(mostly obtained from cutting-edge non-invasive imagingtools), informing on the geometry of the pore space andthe spatial localisation of air –water interfaces, can bedirect inputs for microscale models (e.g., Falconeret al.,2012). To decrease the amount of informationneeded in this detailed description of soil architecture,diverse strategies of simplification are used. Morphologicalmodels (e.g., Monga et al., 2014) and irregular pore-network models (e.g., Perez-Reche et al., 2012) reconstructsimplified pore spaces by extracting the median axes of theimaged pores and filling the pores with well-defined geo-metrical forms (e.g., balls, cylinders, angular pores). Sim-pler (regular) pore-network models (e.g., Ebrahimi & Or,2014; Laudone et al., 2011,2013) make use of statisticalproperties of pore connectivity and size defined accordingto values found in natural soil systems in order to recon-struct a simplified pore space. In these simplifications ofthe pore geometry, the exact spatial heterogeneity of theclustering of pores is lost. Finally, in contrast to theseexplicit approaches, another class of micromodelsdescribes soil architecture in an implicit way by attributinglumped values of bulk porosity, water content and/or dif-fusion coefficient to the computational nodes of spatialgrids (e.g., Folse III & Allison,2012). Whatever the level ofdetail of the soil architecture description contained inmicroscale models, different scenarios of spatial distribu-tion of solid OM fragments, dissolved OM, physico-chemical gradients and microbes (bacteria and fungi,mostly) are proposed (e.g., Ebrahimi & Or,2015;F a l c o n e ret al., 2015). Some of them are based on experimental data(e.g., Babey et al., 2017; Centler et al., 2011)w h e r e a sothers use statistical models of the spatial distribution ofbacteria (e.g. Mbé et al.,2021;P a g e le ta l . , 2020).Microscale models can thus lead to modelling scenar-ios where spatial interactions encompass optimal or lowaccessibility of OM to microbes and thus can tackle howsoil microbial activity is related to soil heterogeneity.However, these models face a number of limitations indescribing the complexity of soil architecture and micro-bial life. Most of them describe a static soil architecturealthough innovative studies have attempted to investigatethe feedback loops between architecture and microbes(Crawford et al.,2012 ; Ray et al., 2017 ) or roots (Aravenaet al., 2014 ; Kolb et al., 2017 ) and physico-chemical pro-cesses (Rupp et al., 2019 ). Regarding ecological interac-tions, a number of simplifications have been undertaken,such as, among others, a simplification of soil biodiversityand an omission of the role of living roots (Potet al.,2021 ). Although the research on the role of trophicregulation in soils has made important progress (Erktanet al., 2020 ), predation has not been explicitly included inmicroscale models, except for the model of Pagelet al. ( 2020).In that general context and to complement the reviewof Pot et al. ( 2021 ), we summarise in the present reviewthe main insights gained by this new generation of micro-scale models on the understanding of soil functions.These new insights relate to the emergence of a spatialorganisation of microbial (bacteria and fungi) colonies(Section2.1), its consequence on the hydraulic2o f2 2 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseBOX 1: Main set-up characteristics of microscale models of soil functionsSpace is at the heart of microscale models of soil functions. Soil architecture is accounted for mainly following two types of spatialdescription: Explicit and implicit (blue panel). The explicit description relies on a representative image of soil architecture (e.g., aCT image) from which the solid phase and the pore space is extracted. Other phases such as water and organic matter (OM) canalso be imaged to some extent. Pore space is either directly implemented at the nodes of the model grid —using a regular mesh orfinite element (FE) or finite volume (FV) meshing —or simplified by using geometrical approaches (e.g., maximal inscribed balls)or pore network models (PNM). The spatial distribution of air/water interfaces, microorganisms, and OM (solid or dissolved) areadded to the explicit description of the pore space. In some circumstances, these distributions can be measured using imaging tools(μCT, neutron CT, synchrotron μCT and 2D microscopy) but, more often, they are computed. For example, the Young –Laplace lawcan be used to water fill or empty pores and statistical models can be used to distribute microorganisms in the pore space, ormeaningful scenarios can be used. Alternatively, to the explicit approach, an implicit description of soil architecture can also beadopted. in this implicit approach, the bulk values of porosity, water content and effective molecular diffusion coefficient —measured on the considered soil samples or calculated from semi-empirical laws —are distributed at the grid nodes made of aregular mesh. Spatial heterogeneity of these variables can be generated by statistical models or scenarios. In microscale models,microbial activity is accounted for explicitly (red panel). Solid OM pools are depolymerized in labile components (DOC) to be takenup by microorganisms. Ecological interactions, including competition for resources, mutualism or commensalism can be this wayeasily implemented by establishing relationships between different OM pools. Coupling between the soil architecture andmicrobial dynamics (purple arrows) is achieved through the transport of the soluble and gaseous components (DOC, enzymes,emitted gases) and the microorganisms in pore space (via processes of diffusion, advection, colonisation of fungal hyphae andbacterial chemotaxis or random movement). Finally, the outputs of microscopic models can generally be divided at two levels(green panel): (i) spatialized output variables at different output times of the models, and (ii) temporal evolutions of these outputvariables averaged over the entire simulated domain.POT ET AL . 3o f2 2 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseconductivity in idealised porous media (Section 2.2),coexistence and trophic interactions (Section 2.3), andfinally, the decomposition of solid and dissolved OM andthe emission of CO 2(Section 2.4). We then describe howmicroscale models can disenta n g l et h er o l eo fs o i la r c h i -tecture and microbial dynamics (Section 3)a n dw eBOX 2: Example of microscale modelling study tackling bacterial diversityThe IbLBioS microscale model of Portell et al. ( 2018) couples a lattice-Boltzmann approach —to describe the diffusion of dissolvedorganic carbon (DOC) hydrolyzing from particulate organic matter (POM) —with an individual-based model —to describe bacterialdynamics (panel a). It assumes an explicit description of soil architecture using X-ray μCTImages describing the solid phase andpore space. The water distribution is computed using a two-phase lattice-Boltzmann model for three levels of water saturation(Sw=100%, 50% and 25%). 690 initial bacteria having parameter combinations representative of competitive, poorly competitiveand versatile Arthrobacter Sp. strains are randomly distributed in the water phase (panel b). The role of spatial accessibility of OMto bacteria is accounted for with three scenarios initializing a fixed amount of carbon distributed in one chunk of POM, fourchunks of POM and already available as DOC (panel c). The main outputs studied by the authors were the time evolutions of theaveraged POM and DOC amount, CO2production, biomass of the bacterial strains and the growth observed in the bacterialmicrocolonies (panel d). In addition, they computed the geodesic distance between these microcolonies and the POM chunks.4o f2 2 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensefinally discuss issues related to the assessment of thesemodels and upscaling and advocate for future directions(Section4).2|MAIN INSIGHTS DERIVEDFROM MICROSCALE MODELS2.1 |Spatial organisation of soilmicrobial colonies2.1.1 | Case of bacteriaIn modelling scenarios based on an implicit approach todescribe soil architecture, Folse III and Allison ( 2012)developed an individual-based model that considers com-petition, coalition and cooperation between differentgenotypes of a bacterial species. The microbes feed oncarbon-, nitrogen- and phosphorus-containing substratesthat are distributed on a 2D grid. These substrates needto be hydrolyzed by substrate-specific enzymes in orderto be available. Bacteria that produce extracellularenzymes and opportunists or cheaters that do not pro-duce such enzymes are initially randomly distributed onthe 2D grid. Unlike the enzymes and the bacteria, the C,N and P substrates do not diffuse on the grid. The hetero-geneity of soil architecture is not investigated and aneffective diffusion coefficient is assigned to the enzymes.Given these assumptions, Folse III and Allison (2012 )found that the spatial organisation of bacteria varies withenzyme diffusion and production rates. Following thesame approach, König et al. (2017 ,2018 ,2019) locateddisturbance events at random microsites on the computa-tional grid. These events, consisting of a decrease in bio-mass, modify the spatial structure of the bacterialcommunities and lead to habitat fragmentation. The spa-tial characteristics of the disturbances (size and degree offragmentation) influence the resilience of the system byaffecting the ability of bacteria located in undisturbedareas to recolonize disturbed areas. In these modellingscenarios, an effective diffusion coefficient is attributed tobacteria. The dynamic of the spatial structure of bacterialcolonies is controlled by threshold effects and highgrowth rate is identified as an asset for recovery in thecase of medium intensity disturbances.Using an explicit but simplified 3D description of soilarchitecture, Resat et al. (2012) involved enzyme producersand cheaters that feed on two cellulose patches placed indistinct zones of the computational grid. They came to thesame overall conclusions as Folse III and Allison (2012).The bacterial growth dynamics rely on a balance betweenthe degradation kinetics of the substrate (in this case cellu-lose), the dynamics of enzyme production and the mixingin pores by diffusion. The model predicts that bacteriapreferentially grow near cellulose spots. Surprisingly, Resatet al. (2012) found similar growth dynamics, except for ashift in time, from those obtained in single cylindricalmicropores. Growth remains also insensitive to modifica-tion of the porosity of the porous medium, although it isvaried over a significant range (20% –50%). One explana-tion is that the artificial and highly connected pore net-work of the simulated domains may have preventedcritical cases of diffusion limitation.The role of chemotaxis on the emergence of differentspatial patterns is explored by Gharasoo et al. (2014) whocompared 2D simplified soil architectures consideringpore networks made of cylindrical bonds of either con-stant radius or variable radius. When the supply of sub-strate is constant and homogeneous, bacterialdistribution remains uniform in the presence of chemo-taxis toward the substrate (Gharasoo et al.,2014 ). Whenbacteria are further attracted by the presence of fellowbacteria, spatial organisation emerges. Increasing thestrength of chemotaxis toward bacteria triggers non-trivial populations in a homogeneous porous medium. Inthe heterogeneous porous media, distribution of pluri-millimetre size patches emerges when attraction to nutri-ent is low and bacteria tend to migrate from larger porestoward smaller pores. The authors conclude that the dis-tribution of bacteria in soil is strongly related to the che-motactic behaviour of the bacteria.The additional role of the water hydration status ofpores in the emergence of distinct spatial organisationsof bacteria is evidenced in different levels of descriptionof soil architecture. Using pore networks made of angularbonds to describe 2D and 3D analogs of soil aggregates,Ebrahimi and Or (2014) showed that when the watercontent is high enough to ensure a high connectivity,chemotaxis toward substrate makes it possible to favourthe shortest paths to the source of nutrients, and avoidtortuous paths associated with random displacements. Inthe case of many isolated clusters, chemotaxis has theopposite effect, as it can guide bacteria to dead-end pores,and travel times can become longer than required forrandom movements (Ebrahimi & Or,2014). In the caseof an explicit description of an idealised 2D soil architec-ture representing porous rough surfaces (Long &Or,2007 ), microscale models predict a larger annularexpansion of a bacterial colony under wet conditions(matric potential of /C00.01 kPa) compared to drier condi-tions (matric potential of /C01t o/C02 kPa). These spatialpatterns are the result of an interplay between nutrientdiffusion limitation and motility of the bacteria. Theinner centre becomes rapidly depleted in nutrientsbecause of the local consumption by bacteria therein butalso because of the interception of the nutrients byPOT ET AL . 5o f2 2 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensebacteria located at the periphery of the colony. The differ-ent patterns observed between the saturation conditionsare accounted for by a decrease of the connectivity of thewater phase due to the fragmentation of the liquid phaseand to the slowing down of the diffusion of nutrients(Wang & Or,2010 ). Using a 2D implicit description ofthe porous rough surfaces, Kim and Or ( 2016) found thatthe spatial structure of two bacterial colonies is modifiedby the water hydration status and ecological interactions.In the case of competitive trophic interactions, the twospecies segregate along circular ‘travelling bands ’. Spe-cies 1 follows species 2 and consumes the nutrients leftby species 2. Under dry conditions, the double bands dis-appear and form a unique band made of several smallsectors of the same species. In this case, diffusion of thenutrients is reduced and the species need to compete toremain at the front line. In the case of mutualistic inter-actions, under wet conditions, species 1 grows better thanspecies 2, which consumes the by-product of species1, whereas the reverse is observed for dry conditions.The role of the spatial distribution of carbon substratealso appears to be the key to accounting for the spatialorganisation of aerobic and anaerobic species in 3D ana-logs of soil aggregates. In modelling scenarios carried outby Ebrahimi and Or (2015 ), the same number of aerobicand anaerobic bacterial cells is inoculated in the centre ofthe aggregate. A constant O 2concentration is supplied atthe periphery of the aggregate, while the carbon source islocated either at the centre of the aggregate or at theperiphery. A spatial organisation with physical separationof the two species occurs between the anoxic centre ofthe aggregate and the oxygenated periphery (Ebrahimi &Or,2015). Borer et al., ( 2018) further confirmed, in simu-lated domains mimicking experimental micrometric porenetworks etched in glass that the absence of counter-gradients of oxygen and carbon resulted in a uniform dis-tribution of aerobes and anaerobes. However, the distri-bution is conditioned by the presence of a carbon sourceinternal to the aggregate. In the absence of this source,the anaerobic species does not survive (Ebrahimi &Or,2015 ). The size of the aggregate is also a key factor inthe distribution and maintenance of the two species(Ebrahimi & Or, 2016 ). Using a simplified 2D descriptionof soil analogs, Borer et al. ( 2019 ) introduced a metabolicflexibility where the anaerobes can grow in both aerobicand anaerobic environments by adapting their metabo-lism. This adaptation permits the spatial segregation ofthe facultative anaerobes into an aerobic populationgrowing close to the oxygen peripheral source and ananaerobic population close to the internal carbon source.In conclusion, the reported modelling studies showthat the spatial distribution of bacterial colonies can dif-fer strongly, depending on the interplay between factorsrelated to spatial accessibility of OM and O2to bacteria,and factors related to microbial dynamics. The formerfactors are the heterogeneity of soil architecture, watercontent, substrate spatial distribution and chemotacticbehaviour of bacteria. The latter factors are the growthrate of bacteria, their enzyme production rate and ecolog-ical interactions which are directly related to the effi-ciency of bacteria to consume OM.2.1.2 | Case of fungiThe role of soil architecture in the invasion of fungi-likemicrobes is highlighted by a series of modelling scenarios(Perez-Reche et al., 2012) where the pore space isdescribed using an irregular pore-network model made ofnodes and links (pores) distributed in a way that preservesthe spatial distribution and width of the pore arrangement.Invasion of microbe analogs is carried out through ageneric probabilistic model that could resemble fungalinvasion (Bailey et al.,2000)a n dg r o w t hi sn o tc o n s i d e r e d .The probability for a microbe to invade a new pore is con-strained by the length but also by the width of the links.Perez-Reche et al. ( 2012) demonstrated that the inclusion,in their pore-network model, of the extra complexity ofthe width of the links has a significant impact on the abil-ity of microbe to invade the soil sample. The invasion dis-tance is underestimated when the lengths and width ofthe links but also the number of nodes are not sufficientlyconsidered in the invasion probability. Bailey et al. (2000)and Otten et al. ( 2001) showed how fungal colony mor-phology can be linked to such probabilities and tested theapproach in experimental 2D systems with localised Csources (Otten, Bailey, & Gilligan, 2004) on a lattice aswell as for spread of a pathogen through a population ofplants (Cook et al.,2007).Assuming an idealised soil architecture made of dif-ferent proportions of solid and porous nodes andaddressing the complexity of fungal processes, that is, byincluding substrate uptake, hyphal tip growth, branching,Boswell (2008 ) showed that the simulated biomass lengthand the total number of hyphal tips decrease as the den-sity of soil increases. The hyphal growth unit, which isthe total mycelial length divided by the number of bra-nches in the mycelium, is the greatest in dense soils.These results agree with the visual observations made byHarris et al. (2003 ) in soil thin sections (Otten &Gilligan, 2006 ). One explanation would be that the fun-gus has less opportunity to branch when the pore space isreduced as observed by Otten et al. ( 1999 ) and Soufanet al. ( 2018 ). In another set of modelling scenarios wheredetailed soil architecture is considered through the use ofCT images of sandy soil samples repacked at different6o f2 2 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedensities, Pajor et al. ( 2010 ) also found that the colonisa-tion rate of the fungus is highest for the repacked sandysoils with the lowest density. Indeed, fungal biomassspreads faster and further in better-connected soil(Otten & Gilligan,2006). The model of Pajor et al. ( 2010),which is derived from that of Falconer et al. ( 2007),describes the invasion of fungal hyphae according to a dif-fusion process and this explains the fact that a well-connected pore space is ultimately colonised. The totalporosity of the domain is then the key factor explainingthe spatial expansion of the fungus. However, if the poreconnectivity decreases, the fraction of pores colonised withdistance declines more rapidly than in a well-connectedpore space. In this case, it is the connectivity of the porespace that becomes the key factor explaining the spatialexpansion of the fungus. The results of Pajor et al. (2010)agree with the experimental results of Harris et al. ( 2003)who showed that the hyphae initially colonise the largest-sized pores, followed by colonisation of smaller pores. Nev-ertheless, the model overestimates the spread of hyphae inthe small pores compared to the experimental results ofOtten, Harris, et al. (2004). A more heterogeneous distribu-tion of carbon or the result of blockage of small pores bythe presence of water in the experiments may explainthese differences. Indeed, in the scenarios of Pajor et al.(2010), all pores are assumed to be filled with air.Kravchenko et al. ( 2011) modelled fungal colonisation indetailed soil architecture obtained from CT images ofundisturbed soil samples. They also showed that the frag-mented pore space disadvantages fungal invasion whereaslarge connected pores promote invasion.The spread of fungal hyphae is also directly dependenton the initial distribution of the substrate since the com-plex arrangement of pores imposes constraints on theaccessibility of resources to the fungus. This relationship isfurther influenced by the complexity of fungal processes,as demonstrated in modelling scenarios describing eitheridealised (Boswell et al.,2007) or detailed soil architectureobtained by CT images of soil samples (Cazelleset al., 2013). When carbon is co-located with the inoculum,the fungus consumes the local resource resulting in anincrease in its biomass there and a smaller spatial expan-sion in the soil than for a homogeneous distribution of theresource (Cazelles et al.,2013). Biomass recycling, whichreallocates biomass through the mycelium and favoursfaster growth and exploratory behaviour of the fungus, isan effective strategy to compensate for heterogeneous dis-tributions of the substrate in a complex porous medium(Boswell et al.,2003; Boswell et al., 2007; Cazelleset al., 2013; Falconer et al., 2007).A significant decrease in the growth of the fungus isobserved in relation to water unsaturated conditions(Falconer et al., 2012). The spatial expansion is preventedby the presence of pores filled with water, which stronglyalters the connectivity of the air phase. Simulations offungal growth in two soil samples of contrasted porespace geometry interestingly show that it is not the sam-ple with the largest water content that inhibits the mostthe fungal colonisation. More important than the watercontent is the location of the water filled pores that dis-connect the gas phase. Water films that contain nutrientscan also guide fungi to colonise pore space and find newresources (Boswell et al.,2007 ). The macroscopic watercontent of soil samples is therefore not a sufficient mea-sure to predict the growth and spatial expansion of thefungus. Knowledge of the heterogeneity of the soil micro-habitats and in this case of the distribution of water andair in the pores and the connectivity of the air phase istherefore essential (Falconer et al.,2012). This role ofunsaturated pores has been observed in microfluidicdevices by Soufan et al. ( 2018 ).T h er o l eo fs o i la r c h i t e c t u r ec o m b i n e dw i t he c o l o g i c a linteractions is evinced in the sp atial distribution of two fun-gal colonies (Falconer et al., 2008). The model simulatescomplex fungal deadlock (inhibited invasion of one speciesinto the territory of the other sp ecies), intermingling (fusionof fungal colonies) and replac ement (autophagy) processes.In agreement with the experimental results of Stahl andChristensen (1992), the deadlock and intermingling pro-cesses occur for environments with high and low trophicresources respectively in absen ce of soil architecture. Whensimplified soil architecture is described, the two coloniesinoculated at the opposite edges of the simulated domainonly manage to cross the domain for a defined porosityinterval (0.31 –0.55) because connected paths between oppo-site edges are numerous enough for individuals to crosswhile avoiding each other. It is important to notice thatthese simulations were in a 2 D space where fungal coloniesspreading from opposite dir ections are always going tomeet. This in contrast for soil where, for soils with low poreconnectivity, colonies can grow past each other in differentsections of the 3D pore volume.Like for bacteria, spatial colonisation by fungi isexplained by a balance between the accessibility of tro-phic resources (which depends on the connectivity, sizeand water saturation of pores), and the physiologicalcharacteristics of fungi, such as their biomass recyclingand ecological interactions.2.2 |Modification of hydraulicconductivity in idealised porous mediaBiofilms, that is, a continuous layer of accumulatedbiomass and its metabolic by-products along with thepore-solid interfaces, can be found in artificial porousPOT ET AL . 7o f2 2 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensemedia during industrial processes of filtration. Most ofthe reported modelling studies simulating this processcarry out scenarios in idealised porous media usuallyconsisting of packings of cylinders or glass beads. Areduction of global permeability of these idealised porousmedia is observed during growth of these biofilmstogether with the creation of preferential water flowpaths (e.g., Graf von der Schulenburg et al.,2009;Kapellos et al., 2007; Tartakovsky et al., 2009 ). The shearforces prevent the development of biomass in the poresoriented in the transverse flow direction even if the localconcentrations of the trophic resources in these poreswould allow bacterial development (Knutson et al.,2005).Feedback loops emphasise this pattern since bacteria thatare more concentrated close to preferential flow paths con-sume more food than in the case of more homogeneousflow fields and thus leave less food for the bacteria cellslocated farther, reducing transverse expansion (Tanget al.,2013). Bioclogging of pores differently affects waterflow reduction and is controlled by the water saturation ofpores (Rosenzweig et al., 2013).Inclusion of more complex processes in microscalemodels changes the picture one gets of the spatial prolif-eration of bacteria. When detachment processes of bac-terial cells from biofilms are considered in microscalemodels, the spatial expansion of bacteria downstream ofthe water flow increases (Kapellos et al.,2007 ). In thiscase, detached cells are transported by advection andare redeposited farther downstream, forming new colo-nies. When motility of bacteria occurs via diffusionagainst local solute concentration gradients, localisedaccumulations of bacterial cells are reported in regionsof more stagnant flow (Peszynska et al.,2016 ). Whenpermeability in biofilms is introduced, the shear forcesat the biofilm-water interface are reduced and cell re-attachment to the biofilm surface is enhanced (Kapelloset al.,2007 ).Whereas the above examples are all dealing with artifi-cial porous media and have applications that do notdirectly involve soils (for more details, see the recentreview by Sadeghnejad et al. ( 2021)), they address impor-tant interactions that occur as well within soil environ-ments but have yet to be captured by microscale modelsdesigned to describe and predict soil functions. Local accu-mulation of biomass and its metabolic by-products in soils,although not in the form of continuous biofilms(Baveye,2020; Flemming et al., 2021), can contribute topreferential flow paths. Feedback loops emerge that alterpore geometry, which in turn alters physical processes thatimpact biomass growth. The extent to which this phenom-enon, referred to by Crawford et al. (2012)a ss e l f -organisation of soil systems, is implemented in soil micro-scale models remains limited at this stage (Crawfordet al., 2012; Ray et al., 2017), but it seems fair to considerthat much can be learned from the studies referred toabove.2.3 |Coexistence and trophicinteractions of microorganismsSoils are known to be characterised by enormous biodi-versity (e.g., Baveye et al., 2016 ). Because of computa-tional limitations and especially of a fundamental lack ofrelevant input data, microscale models cannot reflect thatbiodiversity. However, they are able to capture key fac-tors controlling the survival and/or coexistence of alimited number of meaningful functional groups ofmicrobial species. When soil architecture is not explicitlydescribed and a single value of effective diffusion coeffi-cient is used throughout the simulated domain, survivaland coexistence of simulated species is mainly attributedto a balance between the rates of production of enzymesby communities experiencing different ecological interac-tions (competition, coalition, and cooperation) and therates of enzyme diffusion (Folse III & Allison,2012 ).When considering local spatial heterogeneity in porosityand water content in their simulated domain, Long andOr (2005 ) identified the key role of local microenviron-ments conditions on survival and coexistence of two bac-terial species (one more competitive than the other) forthe same trophic resource. The coexistence of the speciesis made possible for low water contents, whereas the lesscompetitive species becomes extinct under conditionswhen diffusion is not limiting. The fragmentation ofaquatic habitats shelters less competitive species and sus-tains nutrient gradients. When the least competitive bac-terial colonies are located near active diffusion paths,they can survive and thus compensate for their disadvan-tage in terms of competition with respect to the mostcompetitive species (Long & Or,2005 ). Under wet condi-tions, the motility of bacteria accelerates extinction dueto a higher local expansion of the most competitive spe-cies that intercepts the available nutrients (Wang &Or,2013). However, drier conditions reduce the role ofmotility, which decreases sharply even for the most com-petitive species (Long & Or, 2009 ). Variably water-saturated conditions can counterbalance negative effectson the survival of the least competitive species and thuspromote biodiversity (Wang & Or, 2013). In modellingscenarios of wetting and drying cycles, Wang and Or(2013 ) found similar growth dynamics for both species.These results are consistent with experimental results onbacterial diversity that is not affected by wetting and dry-ing cycles in soils regularly subjected to these cycles(Fierer et al.,2003).8o f2 2 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseUsing a detailed description of soil architectureobtained from CT images of undisturbed soil, Portellet al. (2018) found that the spatial distribution of OM res-idues has an important role in shaping bacterial diversityin the case of three bacterial strains, a competitive, a gen-eralist and a poorly competitive one, for the same trophicresource. Whereas at the scale of the whole simulateddomain, the evolution of the total biomass is not affectedby the location of OM, the evolution of the biomass ofeach strain is strongly modified. When the residues aregathered in a unique location, the less competitive straincan grow as much as the generalist strain. In these rarecases, the probability of being near the unique carbonsource is lower but, when this happens, the large amountof dissolved organic carbon (DOC) produced by theaggregated residues can provide an advantage and pro-motes the growth of the less competitive strain. Theseresults confirm those of Long and Or (2005 ) on the criti-cal role of the spatial location of colonies near active dif-fusion pathways. In addition, Portell et al. ( 2018 ) alsofound that the least competitive strain cannot grow if it isco-located with a competitive strain even when they arelocated near the resource. The proximity of bacteria toresidues is thus not sufficient to maintain biodiversity;the less competitive strain must also not be co-locatedwith a competitive strain.Microscale models, in exploring the labyrinth ofpores, have provided valuable insight into key factorsmaintaining soil bacterial biodiversity. While ecologicalinteractions are crucial, the occurrence of transientwater-saturated conditions in soils, by fragmenting thecomplex aquatic habitats of bacteria, and the heteroge-neous spatial distribution of trophic resources, offer suffi-ciently diverse ecological niches where less competitivespecies can survive.2.4 |Soil organic matter decompositionand CO 2emission2.4.1 | Role of soil architecture, spatialdistribution of OM and microbesRespiration rates are highly influenced by the connectiv-ity of pores. Using a detailed description of soil architec-ture obtained from CT images of soil columns, Yan et al.(2016 ) simulated lower respiration rates in denser soils.In their microscale model, the role of oxygen is consid-ered in bacterial growth together with the diffusion of O2in liquid and gaseous phases. In denser soil with poorerconnectivity, OM is less accessible to bacteria and O2islimited by gaseous diffusion and this explains the lowerrespiration rates (Yan et al., 2016 ). This is in agreementwith the experimental results of Franzluebbers ( 1999 )who showed that carbon and nitrogen mineralization isgenerally lower in compressed soils compared to naturalsoils. However, pore connectivity does not alone explainthe soil organic matter (SOM) decomposition and respira-tion rates that were found. There are complex relation-ships depending on the spatial distribution of OM andbacteria within soil architecture. For example, in the caseof the modelling scenarios of Mbé et al. (2021 ), minerali-zation of OM decreases when soil bulk density increasesin the case of aggregated bacteria distribution whereas itis similar when bacteria are homogeneously distributed.A convenient feature of microscale models is theirability to control the distribution of OM and microbes inthe simulated soil architecture. Different modelling sce-narios have been proposed to test how spatial accessibil-ity of OM to bacteria influences SOM decomposition andCO2production at the scale of the entire simulateddomain. Modelling scenarios can be established based onexperimental results relating the distribution of OM andbacteria to the size of pores. For example, Strong et al.(2004 ) found that the most active and largest bacterialpopulation is found in the pores of class 15 –60μm andLugato et al. ( 2009) found that the organic carbon of thesoil is positively correlated with pores of size 0.1 –5μmand negatively correlated with pores of size 30 –75μm.Following these experimental findings, Ngom et al.(2011 ) carried out modelling scenarios where OM isplaced in pores smaller than 20 μm and bacteria are dis-tributed in larger pores because they are the most aer-ated. Up to a two-fold amount of OM is mineralized ingrass land soil aggregates that exhibit much less small,isolated pores than in cultivated ploughed soil aggregates,because OM is then more accessible to bacteria.Other scenarios do not relate the spatial distributionof OM and bacteria to the size of pores but compare dis-persed (random) versus aggregated spatial distributionsof OM residues and/or bacterial cells. A reduction in CO2production in the long term is observed in the case of anincrease in the aggregation of bacterial spots (Masseet al., 2007). In these scenarios, decomposition takesplace only when there is physical contact between thebacterial spots and the OM patches that are placed in aminimalist 3D space where geometry pores and diffusionprocesses are ignored. The number of bacterial spots nolonger having access to OM increases sharply and this isenough to reduce the overall carbon mineralization. Sim-ilar results are obtained with a more accurate descriptionof soil architecture. Mbé et al. (2021 ) used a morphologi-cal approach to describe the pore space of repacked sandyloam soil samples obtained from CT images. Their micro-scale model considers the diffusion of dissolved carbon inthe liquid phase. For a homogeneous distribution ofPOT ET AL . 9o f2 2 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedissolved OM, Mbé et al. ( 2021) found lower mineraliza-tion when bacteria are aggregated compared to scenarioswhere bacteria are homogeneously distributed. In the lat-ter case, there is a greater accessibility of bacteria to thetrophic resource. In a simplified 1D geometry rep-resenting an experimental micromodel, Centler et al.(2011 ) also found that degradation efficiency is thehighest for homogeneous bacteria distribution anddecreases as pattern formation of bacteria sets up. Aggre-gation of bacteria stems from the introduction of flagel-lated movement and chemotaxis toward nutrients andtoward chemo-attractant produced by the bacteria.Increasing the chemotaxis strength toward substrate orfellow bacteria reduces further the total biomass and deg-radation activity in the case of aggregated distributions ofbacteria (Gharasoo et al.,2014 ). All these modellingresults agree with the experimental data of Dechesneet al. ( 2010 ) who showed lower substrate mineralizationrates for aggregated bacterial distributions.For random distributions of bacterial spots, an increasein the aggregation of OM patches increases mineralization(Mbé et al.,2021) but also the variability among repetitions(Masse et al., 2007; Nunan et al., 2020). Although access tothe trophic resource becomes increasingly limited, theamount of OM to which some bacteria have accessremains sufficient to produce greater mineralization in thelong term. When both spatial distribution of bacteria andOM are aggregated, mineralization is not ranked againstthe degree of clustering of OM or bacteria (Mbéet al.,2021). Results are highly influenced by the occur-rence of co-localization of bacterial hot-spot with largeplant residues containing a high amount of OM which caneven surpass the mineralization of a random distributionof OM (Mbé et al.,2021). All these modelling results agreewith the experimental measurements of Bending andTurner (1999) that showed a greater emission of CO 2inthe presence of large chunks of plant residues. However,they are in apparent contradiction with experimentalresults that have shown that large plant residues, having ahigh C:N ratio, cause less mineralization than smaller resi-dues. In these experiments, the soil N bioavailability isprobably increased by a more even distribution of residuesin the soil and a higher contact surface for smaller residues(e.g., Angers & Recous,1997; Tarafdar et al., 2001). In thescenarios of Portell et al. ( 2018), where N is unlimited, theOM residues are positioned in such a way that the contactsurface is always identical whatever their aggregation. Theproduction of DOC by hydrolysis of these residues is aconstant rate per unit surface that leads to similar globalCO2emissions and DOC consumption. In the scenarios ofMasse et al. ( 2007) the contact surface decreases when thedegree of aggregation increases. However, aggregation alsocauses an increase in the amount of carbon available forbacterial spots and results in a higher available amount ofOM explaining the highest CO 2emissions. However, usingthe same model as Masse et al. ( 2007), mineralizationdecreases when the size of the plant residue increases inthe case of N limitation (Garnier et al., 2008).The emission of CO 2through fungal activity is alsodirectly related to nutrient access, itself controlled bypore connectivity. Higher CO 2emissions are simulatedfor scenarios where carbon is co-located with the inocu-lum (Cazelles et al., 2013 ). On the contrary, in the homo-geneous distribution of carbon throughout the porespace, the fungus must expand to have total access. Thisresults in lower assimilation of biomass and lowers respi-ration. A non-linear relationship between the respirationof fungi and the amount of solid OM residues has beenfound (Falconer et al.,2015 ). In these scenarios, theimpact of the distribution of OM but also their size andamount of carbon are considered. For small amounts ofcarbon in the OM residues, the fungus biomass decreasesand the amount of accumulated CO2stabilises. Abovecritical thresholds of the amount and size of OM residues(3% of carbon and 60% coverage of the solid-pore inter-face by OM, respectively), the cumulative CO2follows anexponential growth over time. In addition, Falconer et al.(2015 ) observed a difference between replicated samplesup to a factor of 100 between the amounts of cumulativeCO 2for different sizes of OM. Respiration is the largestbut also the most variable for the largest sizes of OM resi-dues in line with the results of Masse et al. (2007 ) andNunan et al. ( 2020). A better assimilation of biomass inthe presence of small OM residues can be promoted bymodifying the physiological parameters of fungal growth(Falconer et al.,2015 ). When increasing the carbon diffu-sion rates in the hyphae and lowering the associated met-abolic costs, the fungus develops an exploratorybehaviour and more easily finds the dispersed OM resi-dues. These authors pointed out that bulk measurementsof OM residues in soil samples are not sufficient to pre-dict CO2production and that it is vital to describe spatialheterogeneity of soils at the microhabitat scale. They alsoadvocated that macroscopic models should abandon thelinear description of the response of soil microorganismsto nutrients on the basis of the bulk concentration ofnutrients (Falconer et al.,2015 ).2.4.2 | Role of water saturationIt has been long evinced that bacterial respirationdepends on soil water saturation (e.g., Skopp et al., 1990 ).Water content, as well as the geometry and connectivityof pores control nutrient diffusion, soil aeration andaccessibility of nutrients to bacteria. In agreement with10 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseexperimental results, OM decomposition decreases inmodelling scenarios involving decreasing water satura-tion levels (e.g., Borer et al.,2019 ; Monga et al., 2008;Vogel et al., 2015; Yan et al., 2016 ). This effect isenhanced in the case of a heterogeneous distribution ofOM residues. When OM is placed in large pores, thedecomposition decreases when soil becomes drierbecause the large pores are first emptied of water andbecome isolated and are not accessible to bacteria(Monga et al.,2008). This is in line with the experimentalresults of Dechesne et al. ( 2010 ) where the decrease ofsubstrate mineralization under the heterogeneous distri-bution of bacteria is accentuated by the decrease of mat-ric potentials (from /C01 kPa to /C050 kPa).Calibrating their microscale model on the growth ofsix bacterial strains in the sand under saturated condi-tions, Monga et al. (2014) obtained longer lag times forrespiration rates under drier conditions, compared toexperimental data. This suggests that their micromodelunderestimates the diffusion of fructose. One hypothesisput forward by the authors is an overestimation of thefragmentation of the liquid phase as wetting films are notconsidered in their morphological approach to pore spacedescription. The fact that pores smaller than the resolu-tion of the tomographic images (in this case 5 μm) isignored could also explain lower OM decompositionrates. When considering water films preserving connec-tivity for water saturation of 50% in soil microaggregates,Zech et al. (2022 ) observed no difference in the total OMconsumption and CO 2production compared to the satu-rated case. However, differences arise locally with theonset of hot-spots of microbial activity depending on thegeodesic distance of bacteria to OM source.Other modelling scenarios have shown the contra-sting impacts of water saturation on decomposition ratesof soluble OM (Mbé et al.,2021; Vogel et al., 2015 ). Thisis related to the spatial accessibility of trophic resourcesto the decomposers, and to the amount of OM. Increaseor decrease in fructose degradation is found when watersaturation decreases (Vogel et al.,2015 ). Degradationdecreases when bacterial colonies are located far fromthe initial fructose pulse and experience limiting diffu-sion conditions. However, when accessibility is optimal,degradation increases for low water saturation. In thislatter case, the increase of fructose concentration in theremaining liquid phase stimulates bacterial growth. Thisstimulation can be so high that one bacterial spot can beas efficient in consuming DOC as ten of them (Vogelet al.,2015). In the case of homogeneous distribution ofbacteria and DOC (Mbé et al., 2021 ), mineralizationalways increases, although to a small extent, when watersaturation decreases. This effect is less pronounced in soilwith higher bulk density, suggesting that the increase ofDOC concentration in the remaining liquid phaseexplains this trend (Mbé et al.,2021 ). When the distribu-tion of bacteria is aggregated in a small region, theamount of produced CO 2is not anymore rankedaccording to water saturation, suggesting that stimulationof biomass growth by higher DOC concentrations cansurpass diffusion constraints.Heterogeneous microscale distribution of water-saturated regions in soils affects the intensity and locationof reactive hotspots. Considering only aerobic respiration,Yan et al. (2018) showed how a balance between OMaccessibility and O 2diffusion can drive microbial respira-tion. Hotspots of OM decomposition are simulated underhigh water saturation conditions, which promotes OM bio-availability, whereas hotspots nearly disappear whenwater saturation further increases because this limits thegaseous diffusion of O2.Most of the reported modelling studies have dealtwith different water saturations but have ignored wateradvection and its complex role in influencing microbialresponse. In modelling scenarios describing an idealisedstraight pore and water saturated conditions, Schmidtet al. (2018 ) showed that in the presence of water flow,the aggregation of bacterial colonies can lead to a signifi-cant reduction in degradation rates. When bacteria aregathered in spots, they do not have the same access tothe substrate as when they are distributed homoge-neously along the pore. Consequently, due to advection,part of the substrate is evacuated from the pore withouthaving been consumed. In a more complex description ofsoil architecture, Gharasoo et al. (2012 ) observed that anincrease in the heterogeneity of the pore-size distributionleads to a decrease of substrate bioavailability because itincreases preferential flow paths. However, in their sce-narios, heterogeneous distributions of biomass have aminor effect on substrate availability in the case of homo-geneous pore-size distributions.2.4.3 | Role of ecological interactionsThe role of ecological interactions combined with envi-ronmental conditions at the microhabitat scale is com-plex. Using an implicit description of soil architecture,Kaiser et al. (2014) showed how the spatio-temporaldynamics of interacting functional groups can alleviatemicrobial N limitation in the decomposition of a litter oflow C:N ratios. Ecological interactions can also maintainthe rates of OM decomposition in the case of low spatialaccessibility to nutrients. For instance, Portell et al.(2018 ) found unchanged overall carbon turnover for ran-dom or aggregated spatial distributions of OM, and Pagelet al. ( 2020 ) found that only a strong spatial clustering ofPOT ET AL . 11 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedecomposer communities can reduce the rate of decom-position of carbon compounds. In both studies threefunctional groups defined according to their capacity toconsume the resources are considered. Redundancy ofthe three functional groups is suggested to compensate tosome extent the diffusion limitations of nutrients (Pagelet al.,2020 ). However, when the diffusion limitations aretoo severe, compensation cannot be achieved.The modelling scenarios of Nunan et al. ( 2020 )explore different acquisition strategies of the resourcesranging from generalists (bacterial taxa can consume thesame resources) to specialists (bacterial taxa can consumeonly one resource), In the absence of functional redun-dancy (specialists), the proportion of resources consumedis increased when bacterial diversity increases, that is,more taxa with fewer individuals consume more thanfew taxa with a higher number of individuals (Nunanet al.,2020). The aggregation of the resources increasesonly the variability of the consumption. When up to tendifferent resources are submitted to different acquisitionstrategies (generalists and/or specialists), the aggregationof OM gives a competitive advantage to generalists overspecialists and the resource is more consumed (Nunanet al.,2020 ). There is a higher probability of co-locationof generalist bacterial cells on one of the resources theycan consume than for specialists. In these modelling sce-narios, soil architecture is not described explicitly, andcircular patches of OM are randomly distributed within a2D space, following the approach of Masse et al. (2007).A different picture emerges in scenarios where specialistsare given an advantage in getting their food. In thismicroscale model, bacteria are singular spots and acquireresources within a disc whose radius can be modified(Nunan et al.,2020 ). When increasing the size of the areawhere specialists can take up the resource, a disadvan-tage for generalists compared to specialists is found andleads to overall low resource consumption.A different result can be obtained, namely, a decreasein OM decomposition, when bacterial diversity is high(Evans et al.,2016 ; Folse III & Allison, 2012 ; Kaiseret al., 2015). In this case, ecological interactions are basedon complementary resource acquisition in communitiesof producers and cheaters. When diffusion limitations arehigh, nutrient enzymatic depolymerization is increasedin the presence of competitive interactions between dif-ferent types of bacteria, from enzyme-producers tocheaters (Folse III & Allison,2012). Low diffusion limitsthe development of cheaters that rely on enzyme diffu-sion to survive. By contrast, in high diffusion situations,biodiversity is increased and the cheaters and coalitionsof intermediate types in competition with the generalistproducers reduce enzyme production and thus nutrientdepolymerization (Folse III & Allison,2012 ). In themodelling scenarios of Kaiser et al. ( 2015 ), the decay ratesof litter can be reduced by up to 90% in the presence ofcheaters, depending on their maximum growth rate. Thiseffect is further enhanced when ecological interactionsare combined with variable water content as simulated indry-rewetting cycles by Evans et al. (2016 ). Duringdrought, a critical limitation by diffusion can locally cre-ate hotspots of dissolved OM due to the continuous enzy-matic depolymerization. During re-wetting, diffusion ofsoluble compounds is increased and this additionalamount of available OM triggers a high increase in CO2production (e.g., Barnard et al., 2020 ). This effect, knownas the Birch effect, is dampened in presence of cheaters(Evans et al., 2016 ). Whereas cheaters are sensitive todrought, they out-compete enzyme-producers underrewetting. The fast response of cheaters when diffusionlimitations are relieved upon rewetting, confers them anadvantage over the producers and leads to an overalldecrease in OM decomposition.2.5 |Summary of main insightsThe many modelling scenarios investigated and thesometimes-contradictory results obtained show the com-plexity arising from processes interacting in the microbialhabitats. However, if we summarise these results in thelight of the role of OM spatial accessibility to microorgan-isms, tendencies can be found (Table1). In general, whenTABLE 1 Main effects of optimal and low OM spatialaccessibility on microscale model outputs and main sensibleparameters and processes controlling or modifying (indicated inthis case by blue symbols in parentheses) these effectsOptimal OMspatialaccessibilityLow OM spatialaccessibilityBacterial spatialorganisation+//C0 +//C0Fungal expansion + /C0(+)Bacterial biodiversity /C0/C0 ++(+)OM decomposition ++ /C0/C0(/C0)CO2production ++ /C0/C0(/C0)Sensible parametersor processesMaximum bacterialgrowth rateHigh bacterialgrowth rateEnzyme productionrateHigh fungal biomassrecyclingEcologicalinteractionsEcologicalinteractionsFungal biomassrecyclingChemotacticbehaviour12 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensespatial accessibility is optimal, it promotes SOM decom-position, CO 2production and fungal expansion whereassoil biodiversity is reduced. Opposite results are found inthe case of a low OM spatial accessibility. We could notextract clear trends for the bacterial spatial organisation.However, we identified several parameters or processesthat control the strength of these microbial activities.These factors can relieve constraints imposed by low OMspatial accessibility and reframe microbial activity tosome extent (Table1).3|DISENTANGLING THE ROLEOF SOIL ARCHITECTURE ANDMICROBIAL DYNAMICSIn microscale models, one can decouple the respectiveroles of soil architecture and microbial dynamics on soilfunctions by considering interactions at the microscopicscale and feedback loops, as illustrated in Figure1, whichemphasises the main links between the inputs and out-puts of the models. We can classify model inputs into sixgroups of different nature: (1) soil architecture, whichdescribes the spatial arrangement of soil particles, thegeometry of pores and pore-solid interfaces; (2) watercontent, which describes the amount of water and thedistribution of air –water interfaces within the pores;(3) the initial spatial distribution of solid OM; (4) theinitial spatial distribution of dissolved chemical species(including OM, O2, enzymes); (5) the initial spatial distri-bution of microbes, either in suspension in the waterphase and/or attached to the pore-solid interfaces (forbacteria), and in the air-filled pore space (in the case offungi); and (6) the initial species. The first five inputs aredirectly related to the spatial accessibility of trophicresources to microbes. The six outputs are those reportedin the previous sections. Table S1 lists each reportedmicroscale model according to this classification.System properties or processes that directly influencethe spatial accessibility of the trophic resources tomicrobes are displayed by red arrows. The green arrowscorrespond to ecological interactions and processes thatcontrol the efficiency of microbes to depolymerize anduptake OM, emit gases and grow. The black arrows corre-spond to other system properties or processes not linkedto spatial accessibility or microbial dynamics. Feedbackloops are displayed by thick arrows in Figure1.From Figure 1, it can be seen that, in microscalemodels, soil architecture provides an initial stage of spatialaccessibility and promotes interactions between the actorsof OM decomposition (red arrows between inputs). Thisaccessibility is a key factor explaining most of the modeloutputs, from a direct influence on hydraulic properties(pore size, black arrow) to indirect influences on thedecomposition of OM, emission of gases and soil biodiver-sity maintenance through its role in shaping the spatialaccessibility (red arrows between inputs and outputs). Thetemporal dynamics of most of the outputs (the spatial dis-tribution of microbial colonies, dissolved OM, soil hydrau-lic properties, soil biodiversity) makes spatial accessibilitya highly dynamic variable and contribute thus to feedbackloops. We identified three feedback loops: (i) soil architec-ture provides a habitat for microorganisms' growth anddistribution and in turn microorganisms modify soil archi-tecture (through fungal enmeshment and aggregation;thick red arrow); (ii) water flow paths can alter the spatialdistribution of microorganisms which in turn can alter thepore geometry (until pore-clogging) that modifies perme-ability and water flow paths (two thick red arrows);(iii) biodiversity creates ecological interactions that havean impact on the microorganism growth and distributionwhich in turn can modify the biodiversity by sustaining orextinguishing species (thick green arrow). Finally, micro-bial dynamics and ecological interactions can relieve con-straints imposed by low spatial accessibility (greenarrows).Microscale models are thus a useful tool to help dis-entangle these complex interactions between soil archi-tecture and microbial dynamics and rank theircontributions. In a few studies, they have been used toquantify and rank these complex interactions. In aFIGURE 1 Schematic overview of the main inputs and outputsof microscale models highlighting the spatial and ecologicalinteractions at the microhabitat scale. Red arrows correspond tointeractions between inputs and outputs that control spatialaccessibility of the trophic resource to microbes. These links areassociated to system properties and processes. Green arrowscorrespond to the links that control the efficiency of microbes todepolymerize and uptake OM and to emit gases. These links areassociated to processes. Thick red and green arrows correspond tofeedback loops linked to spatial accessibility and ecologicalinteractions respectively. Black arrows correspond to other linksthat do not control spatial accessibility or efficiency of microbialactivity.POT ET AL . 13 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensesensitivity analysis performed on a factorial design wherethe geometry of the pore space, water saturation, spatialdistribution of bacteria and physiological trait (bacterialdormancy) are the factors, Vogel et al. (2015 ) found, fortheir modelling scenarios, that bacterial spatial distribu-tion alone explains about 30% of the total variance offructose decrease. About half of the variance of fructosedecrease is explained by two-factor interactions betweenwater saturation and bacterial spatial distribution,between the geometry of pore space and water saturation,and between the geometry of pore space and bacterialspatial distribution. Interestingly, under optimal accessi-bility, physiological parameters can generate greater vari-ability in fructose decrease, CO2production and biomassgrowth (Vogel et al., 2018 ). When accessibility is low, theconsumption of fructose remains very limited regardlessof the efficiency of microbial uptake. This is in line withPagel et al. ( 2020 ) who reported that maximum growthrate can have a higher influence than the spatial hetero-geneity of the microbes on the resource consumption. Inanother sensitivity analysis of a fungal growth microscalemodel, Cazelles et al. (2013 ) also showed that parametersrelated to biomass recycling processes, and in particularthe biomass yield efficiency, strongly impact total bio-mass and respiration. These parameter sensitivities arefurther dependent on the microenvironment contexts.For example, variability in spatial colonisation of poresby a fungus is affected by the parameter describingimmobilisation of mobile biomass in the mycelium inscenarios where the carbon resource is homogeneouslydistributed in the pore space. By contrast, it is the param-eter describing the reverse process, mobilisation of theinsulated biomass that is sensitive in scenarios where car-bon resource is initially co-located with the fungal inocu-lum (Cazelles et al.,2013).Vogel et al. ( 2018 ) pointed out that measuring thetime evolution of bulk DOC concentration is the bestproxy to identify the role of soil architecture and micro-environments on microbial activity. Although easier tomeasure, the time evolution of CO2is less informativebecause CO 2is a more integrative variable and itsdynamics are also strongly influenced by the physiologyof bacteria (Vogel et al., 2018).4|DISCUSSION4.1 |Assessment of microscale modelsMost of the reported microscale models play with ‘what-if’scenarios to understand the interactions between theactors that control the soil microbial activity. Then, thetrends observed are generally compared to experimentalfindings. The majority of studies that have tried to repro-duce experimental conditions consider idealised geome-tries such as micromodels (e.g., Borer et al.,2018 ,2019 ;Centler et al., 2011 ), packs of spherical grains(e.g., Gharasoo et al., 2012 ; Peszynska et al., 2016) and ina few cases repacked soils (e.g., Babey et al., 2017; Mongaet al., 2014 ). Assessment of microscale models on experi-mental microfluidic devices, as advocated by Smercinaet al. (2021 ), appears promising since biodiversity and themovement of microbes can be easily controlled and mon-itored (e.g., Long & Hilpert, 2008 ). For example, Boreret al. ( 2019 ) were able to reconcile contradictory resultsbetween their microscale model and experiments carriedout on microfluidic devices by introducing more complexmetabolic pathways in their biological module.Due to the simplification of the biodiversity containedin microscale models and the still unreachable descrip-tion of the whole span of pore size of soil architecture,assessing microscale models against experiments in intactsoil samples seems unrealistic. Comparison of microscalemodels to controlled experiments in soils that haveattempted to simplify biodiversity also faces a number ofdifficulties. Sterilisation of soils and inoculation of spe-cific micro-organisms have unwanted consequences, suchas an unrealistic increase of necromass. Inoculation ofthe targeted species also poses the question on where tolocalise the microorganisms in the pores (e.g., Juarezet al.,2013 ; Pinheiro et al., 2015 ). Maintaining sterile con-ditions throughout incubation experiments also makesthe experimental protocols considerably more cumber-some. Several attempts have considered instead the injec-tion of labelled dissolved OM into different pore sizes toactivate microorganisms located in these pores(e.g., Kravchenko et al.,2020 ; Ruamps et al., 2011 ). How-ever, as pointed out by Baveye et al. ( 2018 ) there is still alack of experimental data to better characterise soil het-erogeneity at the microscale habitat and this also contrib-utes to hindering attempts to accurately assess microscalemodels.4.2 |How to upscale the informationgiven by microscale modelsAnother difficult challenge is how to translate the knowl-edge gained on interactions at the microscopic scale intolarger scales (König et al., 2020). Upscaling differentialequations of reactive transport including non-linear reac-tion rates, such as Monod-type reaction rates, is complexbecause it leads to a concentration-dependent transitionbetween reaction-limited and diffusion-limited regimeswhich is not observed for first-order reaction rates (Heßeet al.,2009). This results in an upscaling behaviour14 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedepending on the substrate concentration. In a simplepore geometry, Heße et al. ( 2009) succeeded in finding twoconcentration-independent effective parameters in situa-tions of biomass continuously covering pore walls. Theseeffective parameters were successfully applied to heteroge-neous bacterial colonies' distribution within a straight pore(Schmidt et al.,2018). However, it is expected that addi-tional scaling factors that are functional of pore geometryshould be considered to improve the upscaled rate esti-mates in complex soil architecture (Jung & Meile,2019).Chakrawal et al. ( 2020) advocated for the use of the scaletransition theory, which upscales population dynamicfunctions (such as Monod dynamics) instead of the partialdifferential equations of fluxes, as performed in predator –prey ecology models (e.g., Bergström et al.,2006). In thistheory, the spatial heterogeneity of substrate and microor-ganisms at the microscale is considered by keeping thesecond-order spatial moments when spatially averagingthe functions. However analytical expression of thesesecond-order moments has yet to be developed for non-linear reaction rates. Using another approach, Ebrahimiand Or (2016,2017,2018) proposed an upscaling proce-dure to compute the flux of biogeochemical gases at thesoil profile scale by using a microscale model that calcu-lates the gases produced in single aggregates of differentsizes. Then, the fluxes are summed up to represent thoseresulting from an assembly of soil aggregates. However,this approach assumes that the aggregates are surroundedby air-filled pores that is not necessarily the case (Baveyeet al.,2022; Kravchenko et al., 2019; Vogel et al., 2021).Alternatively, microscale models can be used to sea-rch for a suitable formulation of the effective reactionrate in macroscopic soil carbon models or to improvemultiplicative functions used to weight the effective reac-tion rate. For instance, Wang and Allison (2019 ) foundthat enzymatic degradation rates based on the equilib-rium chemistry approximation (Tang & Riley, 2013),which is a more general formulation of ‘reverse ’and ‘for-ward ’Michaelis –Menten kinetics, could be used to fitoutputs from the DEMENT microscale model(Allison, 2012), which uses ‘forward ’Michaelis –Mentenkinetics. Ruiz et al. ( 2020 ) could fit a simple macroscopicnitrogen model to predictions of a microscale model car-ried out in complex soil architecture provided that twoparameters linked to surface to volume ratios of fertiliserpellets and soil surfaces respectively are considered in theformulation of the dissolved organic nitrogen rates. Theseresults are in line with those of Garnier et al. (2008 ) andIqbal et al. ( 2014 ) who could fit the macroscopic OMdecomposition model CANTIS (Garnier et al., 2003 ) withmeasured data of incubation of plant residues, providedthat a parameter linearly linked with the specific surfaceof residues is included in the effective decompositionrate. Thus, rate modifiers that take into account the roleof spatial accessibility of OM to the soil decomposerscould be found. Indeed, by ignoring spatial information,macroscopic models of OM turnover assume optimal spa-tial accessibility and may overestimate CO2production.Rather than mathematically upscaling to larger spa-tial scales, a few modelling studies have attempted to findspatial descriptors of soil architecture that could encom-pass these microscopic interactions and statistically corre-late with the model outputs. Most of these descriptors arebased on the spatial accessibility of microbes to trophicresources. Wang and Or (2012 ) proposed a bacterial coex-istence index equal to the ratio of a characteristic dis-tance traversed by a bacterial cell generation to theeffective radius of water clusters. This index aims toquantify the role of soil architecture and hydration statusof pores on the coexistence of two competitive species.Portell et al. (2018 ) calculated the geodesic distance frombacterial colonies to OM residues and compared them tothe growth of these colonies. They showed that none ofthe colonies is able to develop for a geodesic distancegreater than around 5 mm, which is consistent withexperimental data (Gaillard et al.,1999 ; Védèreet al., 2020 ). The most active microbial habitats are thosewith the shortest geodesic distance, however some habi-tats do not develop although they are at a short geodesicdistance from the residues. This suggests that other vari-ables such as the local soluble carbon concentrationreaching the microhabitats may play a role. This was con-sidered in the accessibility coefficient of Mbé et al. (2021 ),which is calculated as the average of the shortest geodesicdistance between bacterial colonies and OM residues,multiplied by the amount of OM in each residue. Satisfac-tory statistical correlations (linear regression coefficientR2of 0.7) between simulated CO 2and this microscaledescriptor is found for different modelling scenarios.Although these results are encouraging, these latter twodescriptors do not consider other processes such as theprotection of OM by mineral-associations (e.g., Basile-Doelsch et al.,2020), the translocation of carbon by fungithat can dynamically alter the accessibility of OM inintact soils (e.g., Boswell et al.,2003 ,2007 ; Védèreet al., 2020 ; Vidal et al., 2021), the spatial invasion offungi and to a lesser extent the motility of bacteria bychemotaxis or using fungal highways (e.g., Banitzet al.,2011 ). Banitz et al. ( 2016) found that the combina-tion of two metrics describing the spatial configuration offungal highways for bacteria was best suited to explainthe biodegradation of glucose. The advantage of spatialdescriptors based on accessibility of OM is that they can becalculated in soil CT images, provided that accurate seg-mentation of air, water and OM phases are achieved(e.g., Ortega-Ramirez et al.,2021; Rawlins et al., 2016;POT ET AL . 15 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseRohe et al., 2021). Development of complementary 2Dimaging tools such as microscopy and nanoSIMS whichprovide spatial distribution of chemicals and microorgan-isms (e.g., Eickhorst & Tippkötter,2008; Vidal et al., 2021)and whose integration with CT images has begun (Hapcaet al.,2011; Schlüter et al., 2019) will certainly help to giveaccurate information on the relative distributions of OMand microorganisms.4.3 |Overall limitations and futuredirections of microscale modellingDescribing spatialized microbial activity in 3D and at themicrohabitat scale asks for intense computational resources.Obviously, microscale models are not designed to describesoil biodiversity in detailing the many species and complexfood webs, which should be bett er left for ecological models.Nonetheless, the latter may identify the main functionalgroups to be included in microscale models.We advocate for introducing a dynamical soil architec-ture in microscale models. Environmental factors such asdrying-rewetting cycles and feedbacks of microbial activityon modifying transport pathways and microbial habitatschange the spatial OM accessibility. Microscale modelswould be good candidates to test the hypothesesexplaining the still poorly understood Birch effect(Schimel,2018) that can result in large amounts of emittedCO2(e.g., Barnard et al., 2020). Incentive works are thoseof Ebrahimi and Or ( 2018), Evans et al. ( 2016),Šťovíc ˇeket al. ( 2017), Wang and Or ( 2013) and Zech et al. ( 2022)who evolved water content at the grid nodes to simulatedrying-rewetting cycles. In addition, based on experimen-tal data obtained with X-ray CT imaging tools such as theones by Bottinelli et al. (2016) one could draw statisticalrules to modify the size and connectivity of pores.Another research gap is the role of meso- andmacrofauna that, to our knowledge, has been ignored inmicroscale modelling. Worms (e.g., earthworms,enchytraeids) play an important role in soil carbon and nitro-gen mineralization. Their casts are hotspots for microbialactivity, and they modify the pore space morphology throughtheir burrowing activity thereby impacting gas exchangesand transfer in the active microsites. As a result, enhancedCO2and N 2O emissions were reported in the presence ofworms (e.g., Lubbers et al., 2010;P o r r ee ta l . , 2016). Includ-ing experimental imaging data of burrow systems such asenchytraeids in microscale models would be a good start, astheir size fits the microscale models better than anearthworm.We also advocate for including rhizosphere in micro-scale models. Indeed, most of the reported studies havedealt with detritusphere. However, the rhizosphereconstitutes hotspots of soil microbial activity andrhizodeposition has a role in the priming effect and soilaggregation (e.g., Baumert et al.,2018). Current advancesin modelling and experimental methods offer new oppor-tunities to quantify the rhizosphere at microscopic scalesand advance new insights into how these microscopic pro-cesses impact across scales, and current challenges in therhizosphere (Schnepf et al.,2022). Microscale modelscould help in quantifying the respective role ofdetritusphere and rhizosphere in SOM decomposition andgreenhouse gas production. To do so, microscale modelscould benefit from 3D models of root water and nutrientuptake that include soil-root interactions and high-performance imaging tools that reveal root architecture(e.g., Keyes et al.,2013).5|CONCLUSIONSMicroscale models provide valuable ‘what-if ’scenarios totest hypotheses about the role of soil architecture andmicrobial dynamics to explain the non-linear responsesof soil microorganisms. The reported modelling scenarioshighlight how microbial activity relies on a balancebetween the physical and biological processes takingplace in the complex soil architecture and reveal thresh-old effects. They confirm that soil architecture does mat-ter. For example, it contributes to the emergence of aspatial organisation of the microbial communities whichin turn can modify significantly soil OM decompositionand soil gaseous emissions. They highlight the role ofspatial accessibility of trophic resources to microbes,which when combined with ecological interactions, canshape different pictures regarding the amount of OMdecomposed in soil. Indeed, microbial dynamics and eco-logical interactions can counterbalance limitationsimposed by low spatial accessibility of OM to decom-posers. When spatial accessibility is optimal, they becomethe major drivers of soil OM decomposition. Local accu-mulation of biomass can also alter hydraulic properties ofsoil and influence water flow field. Microscale modelsalso demonstrate that using bulk measures such as bulkwater content or bulk soil density is clearly insufficient topredict soil microbial activity. An accurate description ofboth the soil microhabitats and microbial dynamics inmodels is thus crucial to understand soil functions.Even though the assessment of microscale models isstill limited, due to a scarcity of relevant experimentaldata on soils, these models are useful tools to search forspatial descriptors of the soil micro-environmentsexplaining soil microbial activity. Another key functionof these microscale models at this early stage is to guideexperimentation by generating new and testable16 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensehypotheses based upon our current knowledge, which isencapsulated in the models. Modelling also helps to inte-grate new knowledge we gain from improved technology,which unravels novel information at microscopic/nanoscales.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSValérie Pot: Conceptualization (equal); writing –origi-nal draft (lead); writing –review and editing (equal).Xavier Portell: Conceptualization (equal); writing –original draft (equal); writing –review and editing(equal). Wilfred Otten: Conceptualization (equal); writ-ing–review and editing (equal). Patricia Garnier: Con-ceptualization (equal); writing –review and editing(equal). Olivier Monga: Conceptualization (equal).Philippe C. Baveye: Conceptualization (equal); writing –review and editing (equal).ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe research reported in this article was supported by agrant from the French Agence Nationale de la Rechercheto project Soil μ-3D (ANR-15-CE01-0006). Additionally,Wilfred Otten and Xavier Portell received support fromthe National Environment Research Council (NE/P014208/1 and NE/S004920/1). Xavier Portell is currentlya María Zambrano Fellow at the Public University ofNavarra (UPNA) and acknowledges funding from theEuropean Union —NextGenerationEU through the Span-ish program ‘Ayuda para la Recualificaci /C19on del SistemaUniversitario Español ’.DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENTData sharing is not applicable to this article as no newdata were created or analysed in this study.ORCIDValérie Pothttps://orcid.org/0000-0001-8210-7853Patricia Garnier https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5809-9731Philippe C. Baveye https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8432-6141REFERENCESAllison, S. D. (2005). Cheaters, diffusion and nutrients constraindecomposition by microbial enzymes in spatially structuredenvironments. Ecology Letters ,8, 626 –635.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2005.00756.xAllison, S. D. (2012). A trait-based approach for modelling micro-bial litter decomposition. Ecology Letters ,15, 1058 –1070.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1461-0248.2012.01807.xAngers, D. A., & Recous, S. (1997). Decomposition of wheat strawand rye residues as affected by particle size. Plant and Soil ,189,197–203. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1004207219678Aravena, J. E., Berli, M., Ruiz, S., Suarez, F., Ghezzehei, T. A., &Tyler, S. W. (2014). Quantifying coupled deformation and waterflow in the rhizosphere using X-ray microtomography andnumerical simulations. Plant and Soil ,376,9 5–110. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-013-1946-zBabey, T., Vieublé-Gonod, L., Rapaport, A., Pinheiro, M.,Garnier, P., & de Dreuzy, J. R. (2017). Spatiotemporal simula-tions of 2,4-D pesticide degradation by microorganisms in 3Dsoil-core experiments. Ecological Modelling ,344,4 8–61.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2016.11.006Bailey, D. J., Otten, W., & Gillican, C. A. (2000). Saprotrophic inva-sion by the soil-borne fungal plant pathogen Rhizoctonia solaniand percolation thresholds. New Phytologist ,146, 535 –544.https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1469-8137.2000.00660.xBanitz, T., Fetzer, I., Johst, K., Wick, L. Y., Harms, H., & Frank, K.(2011). Assessing biodegradation benefits from dispersal net-works. Ecological Modelling ,222, 2552 –2560.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2010.07.005Banitz, T., Frank, K., Wick, L. Y., Harms, H., & Johst, K. (2016).Spatial metrics as indicators of biodegradation benefits frombacterial dispersal networks. Ecological Indicators ,60,5 4–63.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2015.06.021Barnard, R. L., Blazewicz, S. J., & Firestone, M. K. (2020).Rewetting of soil: Revisiting the origin of soil CO 2emissions.Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,147, 107819. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107819Basile-Doelsch, I., Balesdent, J., & Pellerin, S. (2020). Reviews andsyntheses: The mechanisms underlying carbon storage in soil.Biogeosciences ,17, 5223 –5242. https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-17-5223-2020Baumert, V. L., Vasilyeva, N. A., Vladimirov, A. A., Meier, I. C.,Kögel-Knabner, I., & Mueller, C. W. (2018). Root exudatesinduce soil macroaggregation facilitated by fungi in subsoil.Frontiers in Environmental Science ,6, 140.https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2018.00140Baveye, P. C. (2020). “Soil biofilms ”: Misleading description of thespatial distribution of microbial biomass in soils. Soil EcologyLetters ,2,2–5.https://doi.org/10.1007/s42832-020-0024-8Baveye, P. C., Balseiro-Romero, M., Bottinelli, N., Briones, M.,Capowiez, Y., Garnier, P., Kravchenko, A., Otten, W., Pot, V.,Schlüter, S., & Vogel, H. J. (2022). Lessons from a landmark1991 article on soil structure: Distinct precedence of non-destructive assessment and benefits of fresh perspectives in soilresearch. Soil Research ,60, 321 –336.https://doi.org/10.1071/SR21268Baveye, P. C., Berthelin, J., & Munch, J. C. (2016). Too much or notenough: Reflection on two contrasting perspectives on soil bio-diversity. Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,103, 320 –326.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.09.008Baveye, P. C., Otten, W., Kravchenko, A., Balseiro-Romero, M.,Beckers, E., Chalhoub, M., Darnault, C., Eickhorst, T.,Garnier, P., Hapca, S., Kiranyaz, S., Monga, O., Mueller, C. W.,Nunan, N., Pot, V., Schlüter, S., Schmidt, H., & Vogel, H. J.(2018). Emergent properties of microbial activity in heteroge-neous soil microenvironments: Different research approaches areslowly converging, yet major challenges remain. Frontiers inMicrobiology ,9, 1929.https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01929Bending, G. D., & Turner, M. K. (1999). Interaction of biochemicalquality and particle size of crop residues and its effect on themicrobial biomass and nitrogen dynamics following incorpora-tion into soil. Biology and Fertility of Soils ,29,3 1 9 –327.https://doi.org/10.1007/s003740050559POT ET AL . 17 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseBergström, U., Englund, G., & Leonardsson, K. (2006). Plugging spaceinto predator-prey model s: An empirical approach. The AmericanNaturalist ,167, 246–259.https://doi.org/10.1086/499372Borer, B., Ataman, M., Hatzimanikatis, V., & Or, D. (2019). Modelingmetabolic networks of individual bacterial agents in heteroge-neous and dynamic soil habitats (IndiMeSH). PLoS Computa-tional Biology ,15, e1007127.https://doi.org/10.1371/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1007127Borer, B., Tecon, R., & Or, D. (2018). Spatial organization of bacte-rial populations in response to oxygen and carbon counter-gradients in pore networks. Nature Communications ,9, 769.https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-03187-yBoswell, G., Jacobs, H., Davidson, F. A., Gadd, G. M., & Ritz, K.(2003). Growth and function of fungal mycelia in heteroge-neous environments. Bulletin of Mathematical Biology ,65, 447 –477.https://doi.org/10.1016/S0092-8240(03)00003-XBoswell, G. P. (2008). Modelling mycelial networks in structuredenvironments. Mycological Research ,112, 1015 –1025. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mycres.2008.02.006Boswell, G. P., Jacobs, H., Ritz, K., Gadd, G. M., & Davidson, F. A.(2007). The development of fungal networks in complex envi-ronments. Bulletin of Mathematical Biology ,69, 605 –634.https://doi.org/10.1007/s11538-005-9056-6Bottinelli, N., Zhou, H., Boivin, P., Zhang, Z. B., Jouquet, P.,Hartmann, C., & Peng, X. (2016). Macropores generated duringshrinkage in two paddy soils using X-ray micro-computedtomography. Geoderma ,265,7 8–86.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2015.11.011Cazelles, K., Otten, W., Baveye, P. C., & Falconer, R. E. (2013). Soilfungal dynamics: Parameterisation and sensitivity analysis ofmodelled physiological processes, soil architecture and carbondistribution. Ecological Modelling ,248, 165 –173.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2012.08.008Centler, F., Fetzer, I., & Thullner, M. (2011). Modeling populationpatterns of chemotactic bacteria in homogeneous porousmedia. Journal of Theoretical Biology ,287,8 2–91.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtbi.2011.07.024Chakrawal, A., Herrmann, A. M., Koestel, J., Jarsjö, J., Nunan, N.,K/C19atterer, T., & Manzoni, S. (2020). Dynamic upscaling ofdecomposition kinetics for carbon cycling models. GeoscientificModel Development ,13, 1399 –1429. https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-13-1399-2020Cook, A. R., Otten, W., Marion, G., Gibson, G., & Gilligan, C. A.(2007). Estimation of multiple transmission rates for epidemicsin heterogeneous populations. Proceedings of the NationalAcademy of Sciences ,104, 20392 –20397. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0706461104Crawford, J. W., Deacon, L., Grinev, D., Harris, J. A., Ritz, K.,Singh, B. K., & Young, I. (2012). Microbial diversity affects self-organization of the soil –microbe system with consequences forfunction. Journal of the Royal Society, Interface ,9, 1302 –1310.https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2011.0679Dechesne, A., Owsianiak, W., Bazire, A., Grundmann, G. L.,Binning, P. J., & Smets, B. F. (2010) . Biodegradation in a partiallysaturated sand matrix: Compounding effects of water content, bac-terial spatial distribution, and motility. Environmental Science &Technology ,44, 2386 –2392.https://doi.org/10.1021/es902760yEbrahimi, A., & Or, D. (2014). Microbial dispersal in unsaturatedporous media: Characteristics of motile bacterial cell motions inunsaturated angular pore networks. Water Resources Research ,50,7 4 0 6 –7429. https://doi.org/10.1002/2014WR015897Ebrahimi, A., & Or, D. (2016). Microbial community dynamics in soilaggregates shape biogeochemical gas fluxes from soil profiles –Upscaling an aggregate biophysical model. Global Change Biol-ogy,22,3 1 4 1 –3156. https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.13345Ebrahimi, A., & Or, D. (2017). Mechanistic modeling of microbialinteractions at pore to profile scale resolve methane emissiondynamics from permafrost soil. Biogeosciences ,122, 1216 –1238.https://doi.org/10.1002/2016JG003674Ebrahimi, A., & Or, D. (2018). Dynamics of soil biogeochemical gasemissions shaped by remolded aggregate sizes and carbon con-figurations under hydration cycles. Global Change Biology ,24,e378–e392. https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.13938Ebrahimi, A. N., & Or, D. (2015). Hydration and diffusion processesshape microbial community organization and function inmodel soil aggregates. Water Resources Research ,51, 9804 –9827.https://doi.org/10.1002/2015WR017565Eickhorst, T., & Tippkötter, R. (2008). Improved detection of soilmicroorganisms using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)and catalyzed reporter deposition (CARD-FISH). Soil Biologyand Biochemistry ,40, 1883 –1891. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2008.03.024Erktan, A., Or, D., & Scheu, S. (2020). The physical structure of soil:Determinant and consequence of trophic interactions. Soil Biol-ogy and Biochemistry ,148, 107876. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107876Evans, S., Dieckmann, U., Franklin, O., & Kaiser, C. (2016). Syner-gistic effects of diffusion and microbial physiology reproducethe birch effect in a micro-scale model. Soil Biology and Bio-chemistry ,93,2 8 –37.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2015.10.020Falconer, R., Houston, A. N., Otten, W., & Baveye, P. C. (2012).Emergent behavior of soil fungal dynamics: Influence of soilarchitecture and water distribution. Soil Science ,177, 111 –119.https://doi.org/10.1097/SS.0b013e318241133aFalconer, R. E., Battaia, G., Schmidt, S., Baveye, P., Chenu, C., &Otten, W. (2015). Microscale heterogeneity explains experimen-tal variability and non-linearity in soil organic mattermineralisation. PLoS One ,10, e0123774. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0123774Falconer, R. E., Bown, J. L., White, N. A., & Crawford, J. W. (2008).Modelling interactions in fungi. Journal of the Royal SocietyInterface ,5, 603–615. https://doi.org/10.1098/rsif.2007.1210Falconer, R. E., Brown, J. L., White, N. A., & Crawford, J. W.(2007). Biomass recycling: A key to efficient foraging by fungalcolonies. Oikos ,116, 1558 –1568.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.2007.0030-1299.15885.xFierer, N., Schimel, J. P., & Holden, P. A. (2003). Influence ofdrying-rewetting frequency on soil bacterial community struc-ture. Microbial Ecology ,45,6 3–71.https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-002-1007-2Flemming, H. C., Baveye, P., Neu, T. R., Stoodley, P., Szewzyk, U.,Wingender, J., & Wuertz, S. (2021). Who put the film in bio-film? The migration of a term from wastewater engineering tomedicine and beyond. npj Biofilms and Microbiomes ,7(1), 1 –5.https://doi.org/10.1038/s41522-020-00183-3Folse, H. J., III, & Allison, S. D. (2012). Cooperation, competition,and coalitions in enzyme-producing microbes: Social evolution18 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licenseand nutrient depolymerisation rates. Frontiers in Microbiology ,3, 338. https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2012.00338Franzluebbers, A. J. (1999). Microbial activity in response to water-filled pore space of variably eroded southern Piedmont soils.Applied Soil Ecology ,11,9 1–101.https://doi.org/10.1016/S0929-1393(98)00128-0Gaillard, V., Chenu, C., Recous, S., & Richard, G. (1999). Carbon,nitrogen and microbial gradients induced by plant residuesdecomposing in soil. European Journal of Soil Science ,50, 567 –578.https://doi.org/10.1046/J.1365-2389.1999.00266.XGarnier, P., Cambier, C., Bousso, M., Masse, D., Chenu, C., &Recous, S. (2008). Modeling the influence of soil-plant residuecontact on carbon mineralization: Comparison of a compart-mental approach and a 3D spatial approach. Soil Biology andBiochemistry ,40, 2754 –2761. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2008.07.032Garnier, P., Neel, C., Aita, C., Recous, S., Lafolie, F., & Mary, B.(2003). Modelling carbon and nitrogen dynamics in soil withand without straw incorporation. European Journal of Soil Sci-ence,54, 555 –568.https://doi.org/10.1046/j.1365-2389.2003.00499.xGharasoo, M., Centler, F., Fetzer, I., & Thullner, M. (2014). Howthe chemotactic characteristics of bacteria can determine theirpopulation patterns. Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,69, 346 –358.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2013.11.019Gharasoo, M., Centler, F., Regnier, P., Harms, H., & Thullner, M.(2012). A reactive transport modeling approach to simulate bio-geochemical processes in pore structures with pore-scale het-erogeneities. Environmental Modelling & Software ,30, 102 –114.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2011.10.010Graf von der Schulenburg, D. A., Pintelon, T. R. R., Picioreanu, C.,Van Loosdrecht, M. C. M., & Johns, M. L. (2009). Three-dimensional simulations of biofilm growth in porous media.AICHE Journal ,55, 494–504. https://doi.org/10.1002/aic.11674Gras, A., Ginovart, M., Valls, J., & Baveye, P. C. (2011). Individual-based modelling of carbon and nitrogen dynamics in soils:Parameterization and sensitivity analysis of microbial compo-nents. Ecological Modelling ,222, 1998 –2010.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2011.03.009Hapca, S. M., Wang, Z. X., Otten, W., Wilson, C., & Baveye, P. C.(2011). Automated statistical method to align 2D chemicalmaps with 3D X-ray computed micro-tomographic images ofsoils. Geoderma ,164(3–4), 146 –154.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2011.05.018Harris, K., Young, I. M., Gilligan, C. A., Otten, W., & Ritz, K.(2003). Effect of bulk density on the spatial organisation of thefungus Rhizobacteria solani in soil. FEMS Microbiology Ecology ,44,4 5–56.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1574-6941.2003.tb01089.xHeße, F., Radu, F. A., Thullner, M., & Attinger, S. (2009). Upscalingof the advection –diffusion –reaction equation with Monod reac-tion. Advances in Water Resources ,32, 1336 –1351. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2009.05.009Iqbal, A., Garnier, P., Lashermes, G., & Recous, S. (2014). A newequation to simulate the contact between soil and maize resi-dues of different sizes during their decomposition. Biology andFertility of Soils ,2014 (50), 645 –655.https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-013-0876-5Juarez, S., Nunan, N., Duday, A.-C., Pouteau, V., & Chenu, C.(2013). Soil carbon mineralisation responses to alterations ofmicrobial diversity and soil structure. Biology and Fertility ofSoils,49, 939–948. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00374-013-0784-8Jung, H., & Meile, C. (2019). Upscaling of microbially driven first-order reactions in heterogeneous porous media. Journal of Con-taminant Hydrology ,224, 103483. /10.1016/j.jconhyd.2019.04.006Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Dieckmann, U., & Richter, A. (2014).Microbial community dynamics alleviate stoichiometric con-straints during litter decay. Ecology Letters ,17, 680–690.https://doi.org/10.1111/ele.12269Kaiser, C., Franklin, O., Richter, A., & Dieckmann, U. (2015). Socialdynamics within decomposer communities lead to nitrogenretention and organic matter build-up in soils. Nature Commu-nications ,6, 8960. https://doi.org/10.1038/ncomms9960Kapellos, G. E., Alexiou, T. S., & Payatakes, A. C. (2007). Hierarchi-cal simulator of biofilm growth and dynamics in granularporous materials. Advances in Water Resources ,30, 1648 –1667.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2006.05.030Keyes, S. D., Daly, K. R., Gostling, N. J., Jones, D. L., Talboys, P.,Pinzer, B. R., Boardman, R., Sinclair, I., Marchant, A., &Roose, T. (2013). High resolution synchrotron imaging of wheatroot hairs growing in soil and image based modelling of phos-phate uptake. New Phytologist ,198, 1023 –1029.https://doi.org/10.1111/nph.12294Kim, M., & Or, D. (2016). Individual-based model of microbial lifeon hydrated rough soil surfaces. PLoS One ,11, e0147394.https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0147394Knutson, C. E., Werth, C. J., & Valocchi, A. J. (2005). Pore-scalesimulation of biomass growth along the transverse mixing zoneof a model two-dimensional porous medium. Water ResourcesResearch ,41, W07007.https://doi.org/10.1029/2004WR003459Kolb, E., Legué, V., & Bogeat-Triboulot, M. B. (2017). Physical root-soil interactions. Physiology, Insitute of Physics: hybrid OpenAccess ,14(6), 25. https://doi.org/10.1088/14783975/aa90ddKönig, S., Köhnke, M. C., Firie, A.-L., Banitz, T., Centler, F.,Frank, K., & Thullner, M. (2019). Disturbance size can be com-pensated for by spatial fragmentation in soil microbial ecosys-tems. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution ,7, 290.https://doi.org/10.3389/fevo.2019.00290König, S., Vogel, H. J., Harms, H., & Worrich, A. (2020). Physical,chemical and biological effects on soil bacterial dynamics inmicroscale models. Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution ,8, 53.https://doi.org/10.3389/fevo.2020.00053König, S., Worrich, A., Banitz, T., Centler, F., Harms, H.,Kästner, M., Miltner, A., Wick, L. Y., Thullner, M., & Frank, K.(2018). Spatiotemporal disturbance characteristics determinefunctional stability and collapse risk of simulated microbialexosystems. Scientific Reports ,8, 9488.https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-27785-4K ö n i g ,S . ,W o r r i c h ,A . ,C e n t l e r ,F . ,W i c k ,L .Y . ,M i l t n e r ,A . ,K ä s t n e r ,M . ,T h u l l n e r ,M . ,F r a n k ,K . ,&B a n i t z ,T .( 2 0 1 7 ) .Modelling functional resilienc e of microbial ecosystems:Analysis of governing processes. Environmental Modelling &Software ,89,3 1–39.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2016.11.025Kravchenko, A., Falconer, R. E., Grinev, D., & Otten, W. (2011). Fun-gal colonization in soils with different management histories:Modeling growth in three-dimensional pore volumes. EcologicalApplications ,21,1 2 0 2 –1210. https://doi.org/10.2307/23022990POT ET AL . 19 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseKravchenko, A., Guber, A., Gunina, A., Dippold, M., &Kuzyakov, Y. (2020). Pore-scale view of microbial turnover:Combining 14 C imaging, μCT and zymography after addingsoluble carbon to soil pores of specific sizes. European Journalof Soil Science ,1-15, 593–607.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.13001Kravchenko, A., Otten, W., Garnier, P., Pot, V., & Baveye, P. C.(2019). Soil aggregates as biogeochemical reactors: Not a wayforward in the research on soil –atmosphere exchange of green-house gases. Global Change Biology ,25, 2205 –2208. https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.14640Laudone, G. M., Matthews, G. P., Bird, N. R. A., Whalley, W. R.,Cardenas, L. M., & Gregory, A. S. (2011). A model to predictthe effects of soil structure on denitrification and N 2O emission.Journal of Hydrology ,409, 283 –290. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhydrol.2011.08.026Laudone, G. M., Matthews, G. P., Gregory, A. S., Bird, N. R. A., &Whalley, W. R. (2013). A dual-porous, inverse model of waterretention to study biological and hydrological interactions insoil. European Journal of Soil Science ,64, 345 –356.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.12055Long, T., & Or, D. (2005). Aquatic habitats and diffusion constraintsaffecting microbial coexistence in unsaturated porous media.Water Resources Research ,41, W08408.https://doi.org/10.1029/2004WR003796Long, T., & Or, D. (2007). Microbial growth on partially saturatedrough surfaces: Simulations in idealized roughness networks.Water Resources Research ,43, W02409. https://doi.org/10.1029/2005WR004781Long, T., & Or, D. (2009). Dynamics of microbial growth and coex-istence on variably saturated rough surfaces. EnvironmentalMicrobiology ,58, 262 –275. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-009-9510-3Long, W., & Hilpert, M. (2008). Lattice-Boltzmann modeling of con-taminant degradation by chemotactic bacteria: Exploring theformation and movement of bacterial bands. Water ResourcesResearch ,44, W09415.https://doi.org/10.1029/2007WR006129Lubbers, I. M., Pulleman, M. M., & van Groenigen, J. W. (2010).Can earthworms simultaneously enhance decomposition andstabilization of plant residue carbon? Soil Biology and Biochem-istry,105,1 2–24.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.11.008Lugato, E., Morari, F., Nardi, S., Berti, A., & Giardini, L. (2009). Rela-tionship between aggregate pore size distribution and organic –humic carbon in contrasting soils. Soil & Tillage Research ,103,153–157.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.still.2008.10.013Masse, D., Cambier, C., Brauman, A., Sall, S., Assiggbetse, K., &Chotte, J. L. (2007). MIOR: An individual-based model for sim-ulating the spatial patterns of soil organic matter microbialdecomposition. European Journal of Soil Science ,58, 1127 –1135.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2389.2007.00900.xMbé, B., Monga, O., Pot, V., Otten, W., Hecht, F., Raynaud, X.,Nunan, N., Chenu, C., Baveye, P. C., & Garnier, P. (2021). Sce-nario modelling of carbon mineralization in 3D soil architec-ture at the microscale: Toward an accessibility coefficient oforganic matter for bacteria. European Journal of Soil Science ,73, e13144.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.13144M o n g a ,O . ,B o u s s o ,M . ,G a r n i e r ,P . ,&P o t ,V .( 2 0 0 8 ) .3 Dg e o m e t r i cstructures and biological activit y: Application to microbial soilorganic matter decomposition in pore space. Ecological Modelling ,216, 291–302.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2008.04.015Monga, O., Garnier, P., Pot, V., Coucheney, E., Nunan, N.,Otten, W., & Chenu, C. (2014). Simulating microbial degrada-tion of organic matter in a simple porous system using the 3-Ddiffusion-based model MOSAIC. Biogeosciences ,11, 2201 –2209.https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-11-2201-2014Ngom, N. F., Garnier, P., Monga, O., & Peth, S. (2011). Extractionof three-dimensional soil pore space from microtomographyimages using a geometrical approach. Geoderma ,163, 127 –134.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2011.04.013Nunan, N., Schmidt, H., & Raynaud, X. (2020). The ecology of het-erogeneity: Soil bacterial communities and C dynamics. Philo-sophical Transactions of the Royal Society B ,375, 20190249.https://doi.org/10.1098/rstb.2019.0249Ortega-Ramirez P., Pot V., Laville P., Schlüter S., Hadjar D., Basile-Doelsch I., Henault C., Caurel C., Mazurier A., Lacoste M., &Garnier P. (2021). Role of soil microstructure on the emissionof N2O in intact small soil columns. EGU21-12438, EGU Gen-eral Assembly 2021. https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-egu21-12438Otten, W., Bailey, D. J., & Gilligan, C. A. (2004). Empirical evidenceof spatial thresholds to control invasion of fungal parasites andsaprotrophs. New Phytologist ,163, 125 –132.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1469-8137.2004.01086.xOtten, W., & Gilligan, C. A. (2006). Soil structure and soil-borne dis-eases: Using epidemiological concepts to scale from fungalspread to plant epidemics. European Journal of Soil Science ,57,26–37.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2389.2005.00766.xOtten, W., Gilligan, C. A., Watts, C. W., Dexter, A. R., & Hall, D.(1999). Continuity of air-filled pores and invasion thresholdsfor a soil-borne fungal plant pathogen, Rhizoctonia solani. SoilBiology and Biochemistry ,31, 1803 –1810.https://doi.org/10.1016/S0038-0717(99)00099-1Otten, W., Hall, D., Harris, K., Ritz, K., Young, I. M., &Gilligan, C. A. (2001). Soil physics, fungal epidemiology andthe spread of Rhizoctonia solani. New Phytologist ,151, 459–468.https://doi.org/10.1046/j.0028-646x.2001.00190.xOtten, W., Harris, K., Young, I. M., Ritz, K., & Gilligan, C. A.(2004). Preferential spread of the pathogenic fungus Rhizocto-nia solani through structured soil. Soil Biology and Biogeochem-istry,36, 203–210. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2003.09.006P a g e l ,H . ,K r i e s c h e ,B . ,U k s a ,M . ,P o l l ,C . ,K a n d e l e r ,E . ,S c h m i d t ,V . ,&Streck, T. (2020). Spatial control of carbon dynamics in soil bymicrobial decomposer communities. Frontiers in EnvironmentalScience ,8,2 .https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2020.00002Pajor, R., Falconer, R., Hapca, S., & Otten, W. (2010). Modellingand quantifying the effect of heterogeneity in soil physical con-ditions on fungal growth. Biogeosciences ,7, 3731 –3740.https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-7-3731-2010P e r e z - R e c h e ,F .J . ,T a r a s k i n ,S .N . ,O t t e n ,W . ,V i a n a ,M .P . ,Costa, L. d. F., & Gilligan, C. A. (2012). Prominent effect of soilnetwork heterogeneity on microbial invasion. Physical Review Let-ters,109, 098102.https://doi.org/10. 1103/PhysRevLett.109.098102Peszynska, M., Trykozko, A., Iltis, G., Schlueter, S., &Wildenschild, W. (2016). Biofilm growth in porous media:Experiments, computational modeling at the porescale, andupscaling. Advances in Water Resources ,95, 288 –301.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.205.07.008Pinheiro, M., Garnier, P., Beguet, J., Martin, L. F., & Vieublé, G. L.(2015). The millimetre-scale distribution of 2,4-D and its20 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons Licensedegraders drives the fate of 2,4-D at the soil core scale. Soil Biol-ogy and Biochemistry ,88,9 0–100. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2015.07.008Porre, R. J., van Groenigen, J. W., de Deyn, G. B., deGoede, R. G. M., & Lubbers, I. M. (2016). Exploring the rela-tionship between soil mesofauna, soil structure and N2O emis-sions. Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,96,5 5–64.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2016.01.018Portell, X., Pot, V., Garnier, P., Otten, W., & Baveye, P. C. (2018).Microscale heterogeneity of the spatial distribution of organicmatter can promote bacterial biodiversity in soils: Insights fromcomputer simulations. Frontiers in Microbiology ,9, 1583.https://doi.org/10.3389/fmicb.2018.01583Pot, V., Portell, X., Otten, W., Garnier, P., Monga, O., &Baveye, P. C. (2021). Accounting for soil architecture andmicrobial dynamics in microscale models: Current practices insoil science and the path ahead. European Journal of Soil Sci-ence,73,1–23.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.13142Rawlins, B. G., Wragg, J., Reinhard, C., Atwood, R. C., Houston, A.,Lark, R. M., & Rudolph, S. (2016). Three-dimensional soilorganic matter distribution, accessibility and microbial respira-tion in macroaggregates using osmium staining and synchro-tron X-ray computed tomography. The Soil ,2, 659 –671.https://doi.org/10.5194/soil-2-659-2016Ray, N., Rupp, A., & Prechtel, A. (2017). Discrete-continuum multi-scale model for transport, biomass development and solidrestructuring in porous media. Advances in Water Resources ,107, 393–404. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2017.04.001Resat, H., Bailey, V., McCue, L. A., & Konpka, A. (2012). Modelingmicrobial dynamics in heterogeneous environments: Growthon soil carbon sources. Microbial Ecology ,63, 883 –897.https://doi.org/10.1007/s00248-011-9965-xRohe, L., Apelt, B., Vogel, H.-J., Well, R., Wu, G.-M., & Schlüter, S.(2021). Denitrification in soil as a function of oxygen availabil-ity at the microscale. Biogeosciences ,18, 1185 –1201.https://doi.org/10.5194/bg-18-1185-2021Rosenzweig, D., Furman, A., & Shavit, U. (2013). A channel net-work model as a framework for characterizing variably satu-rated flow in biofilm-affected soils. Vadose Zone Journal ,12,1–15.https://doi.org/10.2136/vzj2012.0079Ruamps, L. S., Nunan, N., & Chenu, C. (2011). Microbial biogeogra-phy at the soil pore scale. Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,43,280–286. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2010.10.010Ruiz, S. A., McKay Fletcher, D. M., Boghi, A., Williams, K. A.,Duncan, S. J., Scotson, C. P., Petroselli, C., Dias, T. G. S.,Chadwick, D. R., Jones, D. L., & Roose, T. (2020). Image-basedquantification of soil microbial dead zones induced by nitrogenfertilization. Science of the Total Environment ,727, 138197.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138197R u p p ,A . ,G u h r a ,T . ,M e i e r ,A . ,P r e c h t e l ,A . ,R i t s c h e l ,T . ,Ray, N., & Totsche, K. U. (2019). Application of a cellularautomaton method to model the structure formation in soilsunder saturated conditions : A mechanistic approach. Fron-tiers in Environmental Science ,7, 170. https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2019.00170Sadeghnejad, S., Enzmann, F., & Kersten, M. (2021). Digital rockphysics, chemistry, and biology: Challenges and prospects ofpore-scale modelling approach. Applied Geochemistry ,131,105028. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apgeochem.2021.105028Schimel, J. P. (2018). Life in dry soils; effect of drought on soilmicrobial communities and processes. The Annual Review ofEcology, Evolution, and Systematics ,49, 409 –432. https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev-ecolsys-110617-062614Schlüter, S., Eickhorst, T., & Mueller, C. W. (2019). Correlativeimaging reveals holistic view of soil microenvironments. Envi-ronmental Science & Technology ,53, 829 –837. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.8b05245Schmidt, S. I., Kreft, J. H., Mackay, R., Picioreanu, C., &Thullner, M. (2018). Elucidating the impact of micro-scale het-erogeneous bacterial distribution on biodegradation. Advancesin Water Resources ,116,6 7 –76.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2018.01.013Schnepf, A., Carminati, A., Ahmed, M. A., Benard, P., Bentz, J.,Bonkowski, M., Knott, M., Diehl, D., Duddek, P., Kröner, E.,et al. (2022). Linking rhizosphere processes across scales: Opin-ion. Plant and Soil ,1–38.https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-022-05306-7Skopp, J., Jawson, M. D., & Doran, J. W. (1990). Steady-state aero-bic microbial activity as a function of soil water content. SoilScience Society of America Journal ,54, 1619 –1625. https://doi.org/10.2136/sssaj1990.03615995005400060018xSmercina, D. N., Bailey, V. L., & Hofmockel, S. (2021). Micro on amacroscale: Relating microbial-scale soil processes to globalecosystem function. FEMS Microbiology Ecology ,97, fiab091.https://doi.org/10.1093/femsec/fiab091Soufan, R., Delaunay, Y., Gonod, L. V., Shor, L. M., Garnier, P.,Otten, W., & Baveye, P. C. (2018). Pore-scale monitoring of theeffect of microarchitecture on fungal growth in a two-dimensional soil-like micromodel. Frontiers in EnvironmentalScience ,6, 68.https://doi.org/10.3389/fenvs.2018.00068Stahl, P. D., & Christensen, M. (1992). In vitro interactions amongmembers of a soil microfungal community. Soil Biology andBiochemistry ,24, 309 –316. https://doi.org/10.1016/0038-0717(92)90190-9Šťovíc ˇe k ,A . ,K i m ,M . ,O r ,D . ,&G i l l o r ,O .( 2 0 1 7 ) .M i c r o b i a lc o m -munity response to hydration-desiccation cycles in desertsoil. Scientific Reports ,7, 45735.https://doi.org/10.1038/srep45735Strong, D. T., de Wever, H., Merckx, R., & Recous, S. (2004). Spatiallocation of carbon decomposition in the soil pore system.European Journal of Soil Science ,55, 739 –750.https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1365-2389.2004.00639.xTang, J. Y., & Riley, W. J. (2013). A total quasi-steady-state formulationof substrate uptake kinetics in complex networks and an exampleapplication to microbial litter decomposition. Biogeosciences ,10,8329–8351. https://doi.org/10. 5194/bg-10-8329-2013Tang Y., Valocchi A.J., WerthC.J., Liu H. (2013). An improvedpore-scale biofilm model and comparison with a microfluidicflow cell experiment. Water Resources Research 49 , 8370 –8382.doi:https://doi.org/10.1002/2013WR013843Tarafdar, J. C., Meena, S. C., & Kathju, S. (2001). Influence of strawsize on activity and biomass of soil microorganisms duringdecomposition. European Journal of Soil Biology ,37, 157 –160.https://doi.org/10.1016/S1164-5563(01)01084-6Tartakovsky, A. M., Scheibe, T. D., & Meakin, P. (2009). Pore-scalemodel for reactive transport and biomass growth. Journal ofPorous Media ,12, 417 –434. https://doi.org/10.1615/JPorMedia.v12.i5.30POT ET AL . 21 of 22 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons LicenseVédère, C., Vieublé-Gonod, L., Pouteu, V., Girardin, C., & Chenu, C.(2020). Spatial and temporal evolution of detritusphere hotspotsat different soil moistures. Soil Biology and Biochemistry ,150,107975.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2020.107975Vidal, A., Klöffel, T., Guigue, J., Angst, G., Steffens, M.,Hoeschen, C., & Mueller, C. W. (2021). Visualizing the transferof organic matter from decaying plant residues to soil mineralsurfaces controlled by microorganisms. Soil Biology and Bio-chemistry ,160, 108347. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2021.108347Vogel, H.-J., Balseiro-Romero, M., Kravchenko, A., Otten, W.,Pot, V., Schlüter, S., Weller, U., & Baveye, P. C. (2021). A holis-tic perspective on soil architecture is needed as a key to soilfunctions. European Journal of Soil Science ,73,1–14.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.13152Vogel, L., Makowski, D., Garnier, P., Vieublé-Gonod, L.,Coquet, Y., Raynaud, X., Nunan, N., Chenu, C., Falconer, R., &Pot, V. (2015). Modeling the effect of soil meso- and macroporestopology on the biodegradation of a soluble carbon substrate.Advances in Water Resources ,83, 123 –126.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2015.05.020Vogel, L. E., Pot, V., Makowski, D., Garnier, P., & Baveye, P. C.(2018). To what extent do uncerta inty and sensitivity analyseshelp unravel the influence of microscale physical and biologi-cal drivers in soil carbon dynamics models? Ecological Model-ling,383,1 0 –22.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolmodel.2018.05.007Wang, B., & Allison, S. D. (2019). Emergent properties of organicmatter decomposition by soil enzymes. Soil Biology and Bio-chemistry ,136, 107522. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.soilbio.2019.107522Wang, G., & Or, D. (2010). Aqueous films limit bacterial cell motil-ity and colony expansion on partially saturated rough surfaces.Environmental Microbiology ,12, 1363 –1373. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1462-2920.2010.02180.xWang, G., & Or, D. (2012). A hydration-based biophysical index forthe onset of soil microbial coexistence. Scientific Reports ,2, 881.https://doi.org/10.1038/srep00881Wang, G., & Or, D. (2013). Hydration dynamics promote bacterialcoexistence on rough surfaces. ISME Journal ,7, 395 –404.https://doi.org/10.1038/ismej.2012.115Wang, G., & Or, D. (2014). Trophic interactions induce spatial self-organization of microbial consortia on rough surfaces. ScientificReports ,4, 6757. https://doi.org/10.1038/srep06757Wieder, W. R., Allison, S. D., Davidson, E. A., Georgiou, K.,Hararuk, O., He, Y., Hopkins, F., Luo, Y., Smith, M. J.,Sulman, B., Todd-Brown, K., Wang, Y.-P., Xia, J., & Xu, X.(2015). Explicitly representing soil microbial processes in earthsystem models. Global Biogeochemical Cycles ,29, 1782 –1800.https://doi.org/10.1002/2015GB005188Yan, Z., Liu, C., Todd-Brown, K. E., Liu, Y., Bond-Lamberty, B., &Bailey, V. L. (2016). Pore-scale investigation on the response ofheterotrophic respiration to moisture conditions in heteroge-neous soils. Biogeochemistry ,131, 121 –134.https://doi.org/10.1007/s10533-016-0270-0Yan, Z., Wang, T., Wang, L., Yang, X., Smith, P., Hilpert, M.,Li, S., Shang, J., Bailey, V., & Liu, C. (2018). Microscalewater distribution and its eff ects on organic carbon decom-position in unsaturated soils. Science of the Total Environ-ment ,644,1 0 3 6 –1043.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.06.365Zech, S., Ritschel, T., Ray, N., Totsche, K. U., & Prechtel, A. (2022).How water connectivity and substrate supply shape the turn-over of organic matter –Insights from simulations at the scaleof microaggregates. Geoderma ,405, 115394.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2021.115394SUPPORTING INFORMATIONAdditional supporting information may be found in theonline version of the article at the publisher's website.How to cite this article: Pot, V., Portell, X.,Otten, W., Garnier, P., Monga, O., & Baveye, P. C.(2022). Understanding the joint impacts of soilarchitecture and microbial dynamics on soilfunctions: Insights derived from microscalemodels. European Journal of Soil Science ,73(3),e13256.https://doi.org/10.1111/ejss.1325622 of 22 POT ET AL . 13652389, 2022, 3, Downloaded from https://bsssjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ejss.13256 by National Cheng Kung University, Wiley Online Library on [20/04/2023]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License