Citation: Osial, M.; Pregowska, A.;Wilczewski, S.; Urba ´ nska, W.; Giersig,M. Waste Management for GreenConcrete Solutions: A ConciseCritical Review. Recycling 2022 ,7, 37.https://doi.org/10.3390/recycling7030037Academic Editors: Beatrice Castellaniand Francesco Paolo La MantiaReceived: 6 May 2022Accepted: 8 June 2022Published: 10 June 2022Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutralwith regard to jurisdictional claims inpublished maps and institutional afﬁl-iations.Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.This article is an open access articledistributed under the terms andconditions of the Creative CommonsAttribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).recyclingReviewWaste Management for Green Concrete Solutions: A ConciseCritical ReviewMagdalena Osial1,*,†, Agnieszka Pregowska2,†, Sławomir Wilczewski1,3, Weronika Urba ´ nska4,*and Michael Giersig11Department of the Theory of Continuous Media, Institute of Fundamental Technological Research,Polish Academy of Sciences, Pawinskiego 5B Street, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland;slawomir.wilczewski@pbs.edu.pl (S.W.); mgiersig@ippt.pan.pl (M.G.)2Department of Information and Computational Science, Institute of Fundamental Technological Research,Polish Academy of Sciences, Pawinskiego 5B Street, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland; aprego@ippt.pan.pl3Faculty of Chemical Technology and Engineering, Bydgoszcz University of Science and Technology,Seminaryjna 3, 85-326 Bydgoszcz, Poland4Faculty of Environmental Engineering, Wrocław University of Science and Technology, Wybrze ˙zeWyspia ´ nskiego 27, 50-370 Wrocław, Poland*Correspondence: mosial@chem.uw.edu.pl (M.O.); weronika.urbanska@pwr.edu.pl (W.U.)† These authors contributed equally to this work.Abstract: Reinforced concrete based on ordinary Portland cement (OPC) is one of the most commonlyused materials in modern buildings. Due to the global growth of the building industry, concretecomponents have been partially or completely replaced with waste materials that can be used asbinders or aggregates. Besides the ecological aspects, modern architecture widely needs materials tomake the concrete durable, resisting large loads and various detrimental forces in the environment.This opens the possibilities of managing waste materials and applying them in practice. This paperpresents a concise review of the green solutions for ecofriendly materials in the building industry thatdeal with the practical application of materials commonly treated as waste. The main emphasis wasplaced on their inﬂuence on the properties of the building material, optimal composition of mixtures,and discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of each of the “green” additives. It turned outthat some solutions are far from being ecofriendly materials, as they leech and release numerousharmful chemicals into the environment during their presence in concrete. Finally, the paper suggestsa research direction for the development of an ecofriendly structural material for a sustainable future.Keywords: green concrete; waste management; waste as a cement ﬁller; secondary raw materials;alternative cements1. IntroductionConstant technological progress and increasing expectations of the market determinethe growing demand for modern technologies and products used in everyday life. Manyof the technologies known and used for years are based on the linear economy model:take–make–dispose [ 1]. Nevertheless, the depletion of natural resources of many types ofraw materials, the deteriorating quality of the environment, issues with the managementof increasing amounts of waste, and thus the environmental and climatic changes takingplace currently as a result of pollution have contributed to a shift in the public awarenessand have signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced economic models and legal regulations. The past fewyears have brought changes in the industry that have led to a trend of replacing theclassic linear economy models in material manufacturing to a closed circular economymodel. The circular economy model is constantly being introduced in various industrialsectors, and one of its main assumptions is the reuse of raw materials contained in waste.This concept can be applied widely to manufacturing processes of concrete with reusedadditives, resulting in materials with altered properties.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37. https://doi.org/10.3390/recycling7030037 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/recyclingRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 2 of 231.1. The Composition of the Ordinary Portland CementDue to the constantly increasing world population and economic growth, one ofthe most developing industries is the building sector, in which a wide variety of novelmaterials are used. Despite many technological innovations in the building industry,cement remains the main concrete component, acting as a strong binding agent or adhesivematerial strengthening constructions. Concrete includes mainly ingredients such as anordinary Portland cement (OPC), based on tricalcium silicate (3CaO SiO 2), dicalciumsilicate (2CaO SiO 2), tricalcium aluminate (3CaO Al2O3), and a tetra-calcium aluminoferrite(4CaO Al2O3Fe2O3) made by heating limestone and clay up to 1400C. The most commonlyused OPC is calcium–silicate–hydrate (C–S–H) hydraulic cement [ 2]. The cement marketis booming and the global cement market will grow from USD 326.80 billion in 2021 toUSD 458.64 billion in 2028, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.1% in the2021–2028 forecast period, while the global green cement market will record an increase of14.1% CAGR in 2017–2023. The driving force behind the global green cement market is,among others, the growing awareness of the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions andtheir harmful impact on the environment. Moreover, the building industry, to meet therequirements of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), focuses on greenconstruction [ 3,4]. Additionally, a new sustainability index for mortars and concrete as amodiﬁcation of the Empathetic Added Sustainability Index (EASI) was proposed [5].1.2. Environmental HazardsProduction of the main ingredient of cement, i.e., OPC, contributes to tremendousair pollution, as it is a source of noxious gasses emissions such as carbon dioxide. In fact,the OPC manufacturing process covers about 8% of the world’s human carbon dioxideemissions [ 6,7], while depending on the type of cement and the production process used,each ton of OPC produced requires 60–130 kg of heating oil or other substance and ap-proximately 110 kWh of electricity [ 8]. Since climate change occurs because of the releaseof greenhouse gasses into the environment, the building industry began to implement acarbon-retaining production process. This has resulted in the manufacturers applying recy-cled ingredients, low-emission fuels, or the combination of low-carbon content materials,which have a cement property with clinker [ 9]. The price of cement is rising because ofboth depletion of natural resources and an increase in the environmental taxes [10].1.3. Modiﬁcation MethodsThe development of improved production methods and concrete composition toensure the reduction or elimination of CO 2is highly important. In recent years, this hasincreased the need for changes in concrete and its components’ manufacturing, particularlywaste additives. Green concrete consists of a binder made from supplementary cementitiousmaterials (SCMs), in which the OPC has been partially or entirely replaced with anothermaterial and/or waste and recycled materials as aggregates [ 11]. The materials of wasteorigin used in fresh concrete can be divided into three main groups: industrial, agricultural,and municipal waste. To improve concrete properties like workability, structure, andlater-age strength properties, the waste material in concrete is often activated by physical,chemical, or physicochemical processes. The ﬁrst one is breaking down the ingredientsinto smaller particles, which increases their effective surface area. The second one, themost efﬁcient and widely used type of activation, is the use of a chemical substance, whichactivates the pozzolanicity of cement’s ingredients. Concrete is chemically activated withthe help of substances such as sodium sulfate anhydrite, sodium silicate, acid, or calciumformate [ 12]. In turn, both activation methods are combined to reduce or even removeinconsistencies in their chemical properties [ 13]. Because of this, depending on the additiveswithin the concrete, the physical properties of the concrete can be improved.In this paper, we discuss the recent solutions in applying waste materials as ingredientsof the concrete that are treated as green additives and compare them with the typicalsolutions used in concrete. Waste-based additives offer a sustainable stream to the futureRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 3 of 23demand for concrete preparation, enhancing concrete’s mechanical properties, loweringthe production costs, and opening up sustainable avenues for waste management. Wepresent different concrete additives, with their varying mechanical properties, and discusstheir advantages and disadvantages, including the economic and environmental aspects.Figure 1 presents the most common additives in the preparation of the green concrete thatare mentioned in this paper.Recycling 2022 , 7, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 24  even remove inconsistencies in their chemical  properties [13]. Because of this, depending on the additives within the concrete, the physical properties of the concrete can be im-proved. In this paper, we discuss the recent soluti ons in applying waste materials as ingredi-ents of the concrete that are treated as green  additives and compare them with the typical solutions used in concrete. Waste-based additi ves offer a sustainable stream to the future demand for concrete preparation, enhancing concrete’s mechanical properties, lowering the production costs, and opening up su stainable avenues for waste management. We present different concrete additives, with th eir varying mechanical properties, and discuss their advantages and disadvantages, includin g the economic and environmental aspects. Figure 1 presents the most common additives in the preparation of the green concrete that are mentioned in this paper.  Figure 1. Schematic diagram presenting the variety of cement additives to prepare green concrete. 2. Methodology The research methodology was based on the PRISMA statement [14] and its exten-sions: PRISMA-S [15,16], as well as our pers onal experience. We considered recent publi-cations, reports, protocols, and review papers from the Scopus databases. The documents used in the presented study were selected base d on a two-step search procedure. First, we performed an initial Scopus search using the keywords “green concrete”; as a result, we obtained 729 research papers, 480 conference papers, and 80 reviews. After that, a more focused specialized search was conducted in the Scopus database, with keywords “green concrete”, “waste management”, “green additives”, “alternative cement”, “secondary raw materials”, and their variations. The sele ction process was done according to the fol-lowing overall criteria regarding ecological aspects, types of waste additives, and the in-fluence of the additive on the mechanical prop erties of the concrete, considering the p of the additive in the total weight of the concrete. Finally, 162 papers were taken into ac-count. The 480 conference papers, as well as papers without connection to the criteria above, have been excluded from the study. The literature search process was summarized in Figure 2. Figure 1. Schematic diagram presenting the variety of cement additives to prepare green concrete.2. MethodologyThe research methodology was based on the PRISMA statement [ 14] and its extensions:PRISMA-S [ 15,16], as well as our personal experience. We considered recent publications,reports, protocols, and review papers from the Scopus databases. The documents usedin the presented study were selected based on a two-step search procedure. First, weperformed an initial Scopus search using the keywords “green concrete”; as a result, weobtained 729 research papers, 480 conference papers, and 80 reviews. After that, a morefocused specialized search was conducted in the Scopus database, with keywords “greenconcrete”, “waste management”, “green additives”, “alternative cement”, “secondary rawmaterials”, and their variations. The selection process was done according to the followingoverall criteria regarding ecological aspects, types of waste additives, and the inﬂuenceof the additive on the mechanical properties of the concrete, considering the p of theadditive in the total weight of the concrete. Finally, 162 papers were taken into account.The 480 conference papers, as well as papers without connection to the criteria above, havebeen excluded from the study. The literature search process was summarized in Figure 2.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 4 of 23Recycling 2022 , 7, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 24   Figure 2. Literature search flowchart. 3. Green Additives 3.1. Supplementary Cementitious Materials as a Binder One of the green alternatives is supplemen tary cementitious materials (SCMs) used as binders in the concrete, which are mainly waste from other industries, selected while ensuring adequate waste management. While it  is known that SCMs can override the OPC in the range of 10–50% of the wt.% [17], it is not a rigid regulation; the percentage of SCMs is selected depending on the desired characteri stics of the building material. Such cement additives may be natural, such as quartz, mica, pyroxene, and feldspar, or of industrial origin, such as calcined clays. The first is rich in silica, while the latter requires prior acti-vation to react with the calcium hydroxide [18]. SCMs provide better pozzolanic and filler properties of concrete and can also improve the mechanical and strength properties. One of the popular materials used as an SCM is a by-product of the production of FeSi, the so-called silica fume (SF) [19]. It contributes to  the enhancement of the concrete’s mechanical properties. Studies show that ad ding microsilica to concrete in a percentage share of 10% results in a material that is characterized by a higher level of cubic and prismatic compres-sive, axial tensile, and bending strength, and a higher value of the modulus of elasticity [20]. In addition, slag (SL) is commonly used in stead of OPC or its parts. It improves con-crete’s mechanical and strength properties [21]. Other SCMs can be made from wheat straw ash (WSA) containing high silica [22]. In another work, WSA was applied as an internal hardener to reduce the spontaneou s shrinkage of high-performance concrete (HPC) [23]. The study demonstrated that the addition of WSA reduces the final autoge-nous contraction of concrete. Figure 3 shows the properties of silica fume, slag, and WSA compared with ordinary Portland cement based on the literature. Figure 2. Literature search ﬂowchart.3. Green Additives3.1. Supplementary Cementitious Materials as a BinderOne of the green alternatives is supplementary cementitious materials (SCMs) usedas binders in the concrete, which are mainly waste from other industries, selected whileensuring adequate waste management. While it is known that SCMs can override the OPCin the range of 10–50% of the wt.% [ 17], it is not a rigid regulation; the percentage of SCMsis selected depending on the desired characteristics of the building material. Such cementadditives may be natural, such as quartz, mica, pyroxene, and feldspar, or of industrialorigin, such as calcined clays. The ﬁrst is rich in silica, while the latter requires prioractivation to react with the calcium hydroxide [ 18]. SCMs provide better pozzolanic andﬁller properties of concrete and can also improve the mechanical and strength properties.One of the popular materials used as an SCM is a by-product of the production of FeSi,the so-called silica fume (SF) [ 19]. It contributes to the enhancement of the concrete’smechanical properties. Studies show that adding microsilica to concrete in a percentageshare of 10% results in a material that is characterized by a higher level of cubic andprismatic compressive, axial tensile, and bending strength, and a higher value of themodulus of elasticity [ 20]. In addition, slag (SL) is commonly used instead of OPC or itsparts. It improves concrete’s mechanical and strength properties [ 21]. Other SCMs can bemade from wheat straw ash (WSA) containing high silica [ 22]. In another work, WSA wasapplied as an internal hardener to reduce the spontaneous shrinkage of high-performanceconcrete (HPC) [ 23]. The study demonstrated that the addition of WSA reduces the ﬁnalautogenous contraction of concrete. Figure 3 shows the properties of silica fume, slag, andWSA compared with ordinary Portland cement based on the literature.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 5 of 23Recycling 2022 , 7, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 24   Figure 3. Diagram presenting the properties of silica fume, slag, and WSA comp ared with ordinary Portland cement based on the literature. Other alternatives provide alkali-activated materials (AAM) [24]. Such material is formed by the alkaline activation of silica and alumina-rich materials using alkaline acti-vators. Slag and fly ash with rich silica-alumina sources can be used as reaction precur-sors. Moreover, these components affect the mo re favorable properties of the entire con-crete, such as low thermal conductivity, high volume stability, rapid strength gaining, fire, and chemical erosion resistance. In turn, the complete elimination of OPC is provided by alkali-activated binders (AAB), which are hy draulic cements with a high aluminosilicate binder phase content. In fact, aluminosilicate s do not react too slowly in an aqueous me-dium, while because of the high amorphous content, they undergo hydrolysis and con-densation in an alkaline environment. As a result, three-dimensional polymer structures characterized by a load-bearing capacity are created [25,26]. Alkali-activated binders can be split into several categories, including alkali-activated slag-based cement, alkali-acti-vated pozzolan cement, alkali-activated lime–pozzolan/slag cement, alkali-activated cal-cium aluminate blended cement, and alkali-act ivated Portland blended cement [27]. The properties of the above-mentioned cement depe nd on their composition; for example, in the case of the first group of materials, they depend on the properties of the slag and the type and dose of the activator used. A properly  selected activator can significantly reduce energy consumption in production and reduce  the carbon footprint. An interesting pro-posal is to add high pozzolanic kaolin to the alkali-activated binders [28]. This proposal study has determined that the higher Fe and Al content in this kaolin lowers the compres-sive strength. Another interesting study shows that ferrosilicon slag can be applied in the Figure 3. Diagram presenting the properties of silica fume, slag, and WSA compared with ordinaryPortland cement based on the literature.Other alternatives provide alkali-activated materials (AAM) [ 24]. Such material isformed by the alkaline activation of silica and alumina-rich materials using alkaline activa-tors. Slag and ﬂy ash with rich silica-alumina sources can be used as reaction precursors.Moreover, these components affect the more favorable properties of the entire concrete,such as low thermal conductivity, high volume stability, rapid strength gaining, ﬁre, andchemical erosion resistance. In turn, the complete elimination of OPC is provided by alkali-activated binders (AAB), which are hydraulic cements with a high aluminosilicate binderphase content. In fact, aluminosilicates do not react too slowly in an aqueous medium,while because of the high amorphous content, they undergo hydrolysis and condensationin an alkaline environment. As a result, three-dimensional polymer structures characterizedby a load-bearing capacity are created [ 25,26]. Alkali-activated binders can be split intoseveral categories, including alkali-activated slag-based cement, alkali-activated pozzolancement, alkali-activated lime–pozzolan/slag cement, alkali-activated calcium aluminateblended cement, and alkali-activated Portland blended cement [ 27]. The properties of theabove-mentioned cement depend on their composition; for example, in the case of the ﬁrstgroup of materials, they depend on the properties of the slag and the type and dose of theactivator used. A properly selected activator can signiﬁcantly reduce energy consumptionin production and reduce the carbon footprint. An interesting proposal is to add highpozzolanic kaolin to the alkali-activated binders [ 28]. This proposal study has determinedthat the higher Fe and Al content in this kaolin lowers the compressive strength. AnotherRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 6 of 23interesting study shows that ferrosilicon slag can be applied in the production process ofheat-insulating geopolymer bricks, which are characterized by the compressive strength of6.1 MPa [ 29]. It also turned out that the increase in alumina waste content decreased thethermal conductivity, water absorption and apparent porosity of the geopolymer brick.The green concrete-based building solutions may also consist of calcium aluminateand calcium sulphoaluminate [ 30]. Initially, calcium aluminate was added to the concreteto improve its sulfate resistance. Calcium aluminate concentrate (CAC) can be obtainedfrom various wastes, inﬂuencing its mechanical properties. Mineral wool waste CACs arecharacterized by their increased compressive strength.Besides alkali-activated OPC, cost-effective cement glass-based binders and additivesare attractive solutions, where the glass is used as a sand substitute [ 31]. Aliabdo andco-authors [ 32] proposed using the waste glass powder as a substitute for up to 25% ofthe cement. Waste glass powder reﬁnes the pores of mortar and improves the mechanicalproperties, where the glass powder addition of up to 15% enhances concrete’s tensilestrength, compressive strength, and voids ratio for 33 MPa concrete grade. Shukla et al. [ 33]proposed using marble mud dust as a 100% alternative to natural sand in concrete. Authorsshow that with the addition of 10% of the marble dust, the strength of concrete has increased.Thus, as a case study shows, if 7.5–25% of the aggregate used in concrete production isreplaced by glass, better freezing properties and better resistance to thawing and peelingof the concrete surface will be achieved. Rao et al. presented a literature review on thepossibility of using aggregates from the recycling of construction and demolition wasteas a component of concrete materials. The authors showed that these additives can beeffectively used in concrete, especially in lower-level applications. Recycling aggregatescan also be applied to produce standard structural concrete supported by additives, e.g.,ﬂy ash [34].The following type of industrial waste is tire rubber-based additives like choppedor shredded rubber in the form of ﬁbers or powder and carbon black as a product of thetire rubber pyrolysis. These materials are used as a substitute for gravel [ 35–38]. Thisoffers a reduction in the concrete’s weight and inﬂuences the compressive and ﬂexuralstrength [39–41] . However, its production costs often exceed the OPC’s manufacturing cost,while the production of such concrete releases less carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.Moreover, only half of the end-of-life tires are recycled [ 38,42]. Recycled rubber aggre-gate (RA) has concrete lightening properties. It increases the fatigue life and strength ofconcrete and contributes to the improvement of the dynamic properties and ductility ofconcrete [43,44] . The disadvantageous effect of the presence of rubber in the concrete isa reduction in compressive and tensile strengths, and a reduction in Young’s modulusof elasticity [ 45]. Thus, adding ground tire rubber (which is a non-biodegradable sub-stance and poses a threat to the natural environment) to concrete reduces its mechanicalstrength, while the thermal insulation decreases compared to magnesium oxychloridecement (MOC)-based composites [ 46]. Preliminary results show that in the case of concretewith rubber waste, the workability, compressive, and ﬂexural values increase with theincreased substitution rate of rubber; in the case of 50%, rubber waste is the highest [ 47].Rubber can also be used as a composite ﬁller with a polymer matrix reinforced with jute forstructural applications. The tensile strength and ﬂexural strength in such a composite arehigher than in a composite without rubber [ 48]. The addition of rubber to the sand mortarhas a positive effect on the physical properties of the mortar. In turn, adding 5% to 20%of rubber crumbs in the matrix and replacing sand with 20% of the rubber in the quarrymortar reduces thermal conductivity [ 49]. Soﬁ 2018 [ 50] presented the gradual reductionof the compressive strength up to 23% load of rubber against aggregates up to 40% forcement replacement, presenting the optimal results for the max. 12.5% replacement. Table 1presents the correlation between the ﬁller, chemical composition, and properties of therubber-based additives that are loaded into the green concrete.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 7 of 23Table 1. The types of rubber-based additives including their ﬁller type, chemical composition, andproperties, based on [35–37,40,47,49].Filler Chemical Composition Properties Ref.Pyrolyzed carbon blackderivedfrom waste tiresCarbon 95.42 0.16%Hydrogen 0.77 0.20%Nitrogen 0.22 0.07%Sulphur 3.29 0.09%Calcium 0.19 0.01%Oxygen 0.12 0.07%(Results in dry basis and ash-free)Other:Ash 16.55 0.34%Moisture 1.16 0.14%Volatile matter 2.50 0.74 %Higher Heating Value (HHV)28.700.1 MJ/kgSpeciﬁc gravity around 0.64Particle size 75 m to600m[35]Carbon black from wastetiresCarbon >98%Fineness Modulus 0.835 (ASTM C-136 standard)Bulk Density 801 kg/m3(ASTMC-29 Standard)Size of most particles was 0.15 and 0.075 mm[36]Rubber from car, bus, andtruck tyre recyclingCarbon black 25%Polymers 40–55%Softeners and ﬁllers 20–35%Speciﬁc gravity 1.1Water absorption 7.1% for 4–10 mm particles sizeWater absorption 1.05 for10–20 mm particle size[37]Self-compacting crumbrubberNatural rubber 23.1%Synthetic rubber 17.9%Carbon black 28%Steel 14.5%Ash content% 5.1Fabric, ﬁllers, accelerators, etc.16.5%Speciﬁc gravity 1.12Apparent density 489 kg/m3Thermal conductivity 0.11 W/k mTensile resistance 4.2–15 MPaSpeed of combustion- very lowWater absorption 0.65 (negligible)Particle size 3.35 mm to 10 mm[40]Waste Rubber from tiresRubber hydrocarbon 47.7%, Carbonblack 30.7%Acetone extract 15.6%Ash 2.1%Other 3.9%.Speciﬁc gravity 1.14, particle size 4.75 mmSpeciﬁc gravity 1.03, particle size 5 to 10 mm[47]Crumb rubber obtainedfrom recycling tiresNon-speciﬁedApparent density 0.38 g/cm3Absolute density 0.62 g/cm3Porosity 75%Water absorption 0.03%Maximum dimension: 1 mm[49]Generally, the literature shows that rubberized concrete has a lower density than con-ventional concrete, which can improve the durability of concrete but reduce the mechanicalproperties under a high load; however, the compression strength and other properties ofthe concrete depend on the rubber particles’ size and content [50].As the rubberized concrete is called “green” for its effective rubber waste management,the rubber-based materials can be far from green solutions. Tire rubber is a complexmaterial containing various compounds, including pigments (e.g., zinc oxide, zinc sulfate,and titania dioxide), reinforcing agents (e.g., clays, carbon black, and carbonates), softeners,plasticizers, vulcanization additives, activators, and antioxidants. In contrast, additiveslike accelerators can contain heavy metals or heavy metal oxides, including white lead,lead monoxide, and even cadmium, that are released into the environment [ 51]. Theliterature clearly indicates that tire rubber easily releases aromatic compounds such as higharomatic oils (HA-oils) and polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) that have a toxic effecton aquatic organisms like Daphnia magna when they leak into the water [ 52]. Anotherreference presents the toxicity of the leakage on Ceriodaphnia dubia and fathead minnowsRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 8 of 23(Pimephales promelas ), where the volatile organic compounds (VOCs), semi-volatile organiccompounds (SVOCs), and metal ions were released [ 53]. Recent studies also show thegenotoxic effect of chemicals released from the tire particles [ 53–56]. As can be seen, therubber can release many compounds that can harm human health, wildlife, and biologicaldiversity. So, their use in concrete, where rubber waste-based materials are exposed to thealkali media, may even enhance the leakage.In industrial and household waste, many plastic waste products (e.g., nylon, polypropy-lene, polyesters, etc.) need to be managed. Recently, plastic ﬁbers have been used as con-crete ﬁllers, improving its compression performance [ 57,58]. Several sources present controlof spalling cracks for high load levels [ 59]. Moreover, plastic waste additives improvedurability [ 60–62], ﬂexural strength [ 61], and splitting tensile strength [ 63], and reduce theweight of concrete [ 64]. Kaur and Pavia [ 65] present the mortars enhanced with plasticwastes such as polycarbonate (PC), polyoxymethylene (POM), acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS), and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) granules, consisting of 5–20% byvolume of the mortar leading to the enhancement of the compressive strength reaching37–71 MPa and 4–9 MPa improvement of the ﬂexural strength for 20% substitution. Theyalso show the tensile strength improvement in mortars with more than 15% of substituteduring exposition to loading, frost expansion, salts, or swelling clays. Other alternativewaste includes wood–plastic composites (WPCs) [ 66], which include multilayer packagingwastes (PCRs), recycled high-density polyethylene (rHDPE), and wood powders. It hasbeen shown that WPCs that contain 10 wt.% of PET/PE PCR exhibit better mechanicalproperties than WPCs without PCR, i.e., a 23% higher ﬂexural modulus. In turn, consider-ing frost resistance, the best concentrate-based composite containing nano-silica is 2.5%,and PVA ﬁber is 0.4% [67].Despite improving the mechanical properties of the concrete and reducing concreteproduction costs, within the application of the plastic and rubber waste, these solutions alsohave disadvantages [ 68]. Plastics can contain plasticizers, ﬂame retardants, pigments, andeven heavy metals that can be quickly released and, once they are released, they may leakinto the environment, becoming secondary pollutants [ 69–71]. The number of compoundsreleased into the environment is signiﬁcant, including compounds that can act as endocrinedisruptors or even cause genotoxicity.With the growing use of electronic devices and portable electronics, electronic waste(e-waste) has increased dramatically within the last decade. For that reason, sustainablewaste management methods are of great importance. Therefore, the literature presents theexotic possibility of e-waste management by utilizing it as an additive concrete ﬁller. Thee-waste includes cathode ray tubes (CRTs), liquid crystal displays (LCDs), plastics, metalwires, printed circuit boards (PCBs), spent batteries, smoke detectors, cables, computermoldings, light-emitting diodes, switches, thermostats, solder, bulbs, etc. These numerouswaste products have become one of the most problematic waste types for sustainablemanagement. Therefore, e-waste was proposed to be used as a concrete additive, eventhough because of the complex composition of the e-waste, it needs to be pretreated beforeuse in concrete. Ullah et al. [ 72] proposed the application of e-waste as a substitute for theﬁne aggregate with 7.5% of the aggregate mass. The authors presented the improvementof the compressive strength of the concrete; however, above the 15% additive content, thecompressive strength gradually decreased. Balasubramanian et al. [ 73] have developeda green concrete blending e-waste based on PCBs by the weight of coarse aggregate for5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30%. The authors presented the highest increase in thecompressive strength for the 15% content of e-waste compared to the conventional OPC.Another reference also shows the compressive strength improvement when the e-wastecontent is below 15% substitution of the aggregates [ 74]. In work presented by Arora andDave [ 75], the authors suggested using 4% of e-waste as an aggregate substitute to improvethe gained strength of the concrete. In Luhar and Luhar [ 76], the broad discussion about themanagement of the e-waste within its incorporation in concrete is presented, indicating theneed for the separation of the particular components of the e-waste such as glass, plastic,Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 9 of 23metal, etc. Depending on the type of components used as a substitute for aggregates, theproperties of concrete can differ drastically. The addition of e-waste to concrete changesthe mechanical strength properties of concrete such as compressive strength, split tensile,ﬂexural strength, shear strength, and durability properties. Usually, the optimal contentof the e-waste substitute is below 15–20% of the aggregate added to the cement. Despitethese advantages, e-waste can release many harmful compounds, including heavy metalsthat are proven to be toxic to human health and the ecosystem, contaminating water, soil,and air, including polyaromatic hydrocarbons, metals, and metal ions, including leadand cadmium [ 77–80]. Since e-waste has been an emerging environmental health issue,its application in concrete needs adequate procedures that require additional chemicalsand energy to separate toxic compounds from the e-waste to obtain safe materials thatcan be incorporated into the mortar. To avoid the leakage of harmful substances, specialprocedures need to be implemented before the concrete application of e-waste to preventenvironmental and health consequences.3.2. Biochar as a Concrete CompositeThe following group of materials that can be used as binders is biochar obtained fromcontrolled thermal decomposition (pyrolysis) of biomass. Due to the growing agriculturalwaste production, biomass needs management, and its management within concrete ap-plication seems to be a promising solution. The physicochemical properties of biochardependent on different factors are presented in Table 2.Table 2. Features inﬂuencing physicochemical properties of biochar, based on [81–89].BIOCHARPhysical Properties Chemical CompositionPorosity (from micro–to macropores)depends on the source of biomass andpyrolysis timeDepends on the pyrolysis temperatureMoisture sorption abilityThe high content of the total and organiccarbonDifferent morphology (from granular andwire-like structure toirregular shapes)Content of micro-and macroelements such aspotassium, sodium, magnesium, calcium, copper,zinc, ironSpeciﬁc surface area (dependent on thepyrolysis temperature)The high content of surface functional groupsThe biochar’s porosity and moisture sorption ability are added to cement as a ﬁller,enhancing the compressive strength and durability of concrete [ 81–83]. Depending on thesource of the biomass and the pyrolysis conditions, biochar can have different morphology—from the granular to wire or highly irregular shapes [ 84–86]. Besides shape, the biochar canalso have different chemical compositions depending on the pyrolysis temperature, time,and feedstock [ 87–89]. As an effect, biochar may have different mechanical properties anddifferent functional groups on its surface, which can inﬂuence the pH of the suspensionunder the mortar preparation and, as an effect, the mortar hydration, as well as themechanical strength of the concrete [ 90–92]. Bearing in mind the reduction in carbondioxide emissions, an interesting addition to the concrete is biochar and calcium carbonateas a part of the carbon storage system [ 93]. The biochar–calcium carbonate–cement wouldsave the carbon storage places on land and/or at sea and help reduce cement usage.One of the main forms of agricultural waste in Eastern countries is a rice husk thatcan be used as a cement binder after the pyrolysis. Zunino et al. [ 94] describe rice husk ash(RHA) as a mortar component, showing that incorporating RHA decreases ﬂowability andincreases water requirements. It can also affect the mechanical and durability properties ofconcrete by reducing compressive strength and increasing the permeability of the concrete.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 10 of 23In turn, in [ 95], RHA-based concentrate, composed of amorphous silica made by thecharcoal incinerator, 15% OPC can be successfully replaced with RHA without loss ofstrength with a w/b ratio of 0.50. Moreover, an increase in RHA content causes an increasein split tensile strength.Taking into account the mechanical properties, ﬂexibility, and low production costs, aplant that is an excellent additive to cement is bamboo and bamboo waste, in particularbamboo ﬁbers and bamboo leaf ash (BMBLF), which indicates a considerable potential as apozzolanic material [ 96,97]. In [ 97], bamboo-based biochar was added in the 0.2–4% wt.%,and the compressive strength of the biochar-ﬁlled mortar was tested. It is shown that the1% wt.% replacement of bamboo biochar with cement has the best strengthening effect,making concrete the most crack-resistant compared to the different percentages of biocharand to the neat mortar without biochar ﬁlling. Tan et al. [ 89] presented biochar based onwaste wood as a binder in the 1–10% wt.%. Replacing the cement with wood-waste biocharby 1–3% improved mechanical properties, while it did not change the ﬂexural strengthsuch as the elasticity of the mortar compared to the neat mortar without biochar. It is alsoshown that the biochar addition decreased linearly with the biochar content.Depending on the source of biomass, the binding properties of biochar vary.Zeidabadi et al. [93] proposed the application of the rice-husk biochar and bagasse biocharobtained under identical pyrolysis conditions, comparing the mechanical properties ofthe concrete. Authors show that incorporating such agricultural waste into concrete hadbeneﬁcial effects on the compressive and tensile strengths, where the replacement of 5%wt.% of the cement improved the mechanical properties of the mortar compared to othermixes and control concrete. However, a further increase in the biochar content decreasedthe tensile strength of mortar.Akhatar and Sarmah [ 98] show the utilization of biochar based on poultry litter,rice husk and pulp, and papermill sludge as a cement binder, where cement content upto 1% of total volume was replaced. Authors show that rice-husk biochar, paper mill,and pulp at 0.1% of total volume are the most effective binders compared to the neatconcrete, while tensile strength values for the paper pulp and papermill sludge biochardoped concrete obtained comparable values. Generally, all used biochars signiﬁcantlyimproved the ﬂexural strength of concrete, while poultry litter and rice-husk biochar at0.1% produced optimum results with a 20% increment to control specimens. Rice straw isalso a promising source of biochar. Even a 1% addition of that type of biochar to cementimproves compressive strength and thermal conductivity [ 99]. Gupta et al. proposedbiochar prepared from food and wood waste, investigating fresh and hardened propertiesof mortar, proving an increase in the compressive strength, sorptivity, resistance to waterpenetration, and ductility compared to conventional mortar [ 100]. The best effectivenessof the biochar addition is 1–2% wt.%. Praneeth et al. presented biochar derived fromcorn-stover biomass added in the cement–ﬂy ash blocks as 2%, 4%, 6%, and 8% of wt.,where the optimal content was about 4–6% depending on the admixture. Moreover, theproposed material had increased CO 2uptake [ 101]. Biochar is also widely derived frombiomass-based ﬂy ash [ 102–106]. Chen et al. have presented ﬂy ash-based biochar asan additive promoting cement hydration reaction via pozzolanic reaction and internalcuring [ 102].Qin et al. [107] described the use of the biochar obtained from the eucalyptusplywood boards incorporating 0.65–13.5% wt.% into the concrete. It has been found thatthe BC content has little and/or no impact on the porosity and water permeability of theBC-modiﬁed concrete samples considered here and that the water absorption increases withBC contents. This concrete also shows a greater compressive strength and splitting tensilestrength than conventional ones when the BC content is 0–6.5%; above this percentage,these strengths are compromised. This is because a small amount of BC will promotecement hydration, so the products of this process generated in a higher amount concerningthose without BC contribute to the development of the strength of pervious concrete. It hasalso been found that 6.5% BC in the cement paste can decrease the albedo by 0.05, while itcan be compensated for by the water absorption increment and strength improvement. SoRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 11 of 23far, pervious concrete could be replaced by up to 6.5%, in weight, of cement with pulverizedBC and it is feasible to curtail CO 2emissions and lock up BC.Sirico et al. [ 108] proposed using biochar from wood chips of local forests (alder, beech,poplar, chestnut, oak, and hornbeam), where biochar was subjected to gasiﬁcation andused as a cement binder. The authors showed that fracture energy was improved by usinga 1 wt% addition of biochar. However, this also slightly decreased the ﬂexural strength.Recently, biochar was proposed to be applied in higher content than described elsewhere.Chen et al. [ 109] used a content of biochar of about 30% wt.% and 9% wt.% metakaolinto reduce the CO 2emissions. The authors presented the ability of the created concrete tosqueeze 59 kg of CO 2per ton and enhance economic proﬁts in concrete production withsuch a signiﬁcant content of biochar.As an additive to a concrete-based composite, metal-supported biochar seems to be apromising solution. It may improve the properties of conventional concrete, i.e., bendingstrength and splitting tensile strength. Moreover, a carbon storage system in concretewould limit clinker production and consequently reduce the production of carbon dioxide.The presence of biochar inﬂuences concrete properties, but biochar-based composites’characteristics require further research. Biochar acts as a gravel substitute leading to thereduced production costs of the concrete, making it possible to produce climate-positiveconcrete whose properties are comparable to or can even exceed those of a correspondingconventional OPC-based concrete. At the same time, the biochar as a product of pyrolysisis dependent on the experimental conditions during heat treatment. If treated as a wastesource, it reduces the concrete costs.3.3. Non-Carbonized Agricultural WasteAgricultural waste is a global problem, so its incorporation into concrete reduces boththe energy consumption for its regular utilization and during concrete preparation [ 110].Natural, organic ﬁbers and particles can provide signiﬁcant advantages over biochar ob-tained within the pyrolysis process because of the lower costs and omission of energyconsumption during pyrolysis. Dry biomass contains many ﬁbers that may work as areinforcement of cement. In contrast to the classical reinforcement based on natural miner-als and reinforcement with steel or synthetic materials, plant-based additives cannot becompared in the case of their mechanical properties because of the soft structure. However,plant-based additives can also improve the characteristics of mortar, such as changes in thehydration rate, elasticity, volumetric changes, porosity, etc.Sellami et al. [ 111] presented results where the wild vegetal diss plant was used as alignocellulose-based ﬁbrous reinforcing additive. The authors show that the pretreatmentof the plant has a signiﬁcant role in the ﬁnal product properties, where the boiling andwashing of ﬁbers results in higher mechanical strength than in the case of dry ﬁbers. Itis shown that the resistance against fracture can be improved within the arrangement ofthe ﬁbers. Positioning of ﬁbers horizontally enhances adhesion with the cement paste. Inother work, agricultural waste products obtained from palm oil and coconut oil processingwere added to the cement [ 112]. The authors presented concrete containing coconut shell(CS) and palm kernel shell (PKS) as a facile method for utilizing waste and reducing thecosts of the concrete production, where agricultural waste was used in two nominal mixratios (1:1:2 and 1:2:4) involving crushed, granular CS and PKS as substitutes for gravel ingradations of 0%, 25%, 50%, 75%, and 100% and water/cement ratios of 0.75 and 0.50 forboth mix ratios 1:2:4 and 1:1:2. Results showed that the compressive strength of the concretedecreased with the increase of the percentage of shell, while the compressive strength canbe modiﬁed by varying the ratio of the shells vs. OPC. Kriker et al. [ 113] also presentedpalm-based waste as a cement additive. Date palm ﬁbers were proposed to replace cementin dry environments where there is a need for strengthening against high temperatureamplitudes. The authors showed that ﬁbers can provide technical solutions for improvingthe mechanical performance of the mortar, while male date palm surface ﬁber (MDPSF)has the most tensile strength among the other types of date palm-based ﬁbers. Due to theRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 12 of 23brittle nature of concrete in dry environments, moisture has a curing effect on the cracks.An increase in the MDPSFs and their length has a beneﬁcial effect on the self-curing ofthe concrete under the moisture presence. It is also shown that the optimal compressivestrength is obtained with a lower percentage and shorter ﬁber length, as that minimizes theﬂaws in the matrix and gives a more uniform distribution in the concrete. Another workpresented by Lim et al. [ 114] showed the effects of palm oil empty fruit bunch (POEFB)ﬁbers on the compressive strength of foamed concrete (FC) and shrinking under dryingwere 0.25% and 0.5% based on dry mix weight with 1–2 cm in length ﬁbers were used.Commonly used ﬁbers improve the concrete characteristics, durability, mechanicalstrength, and thermal properties and reduce costs of mortar production [ 115–117]. Incontrast to the other green additives, hemp ﬁbers are even treated as the main componentof the mortar, making up over half of the ﬁlling of the cement. The hemp bast ﬁber can beconsidered a greener and sustainable industrial waste for producing cellulose nanoﬁbers,which have good crystallinity and thermal stability [ 118]. The mechanical properties ofhemp-based composites are affected by many factors, including the type and length ofﬁbers, their matrix, and the manufacturing process [ 119]. The adhesion issues betweenthe ﬁbers and the matrix are among the main issues in the hemp-concrete manufacturingprocess [ 120]. The advantage of natural ﬁber reinforcements is that the required ﬁber ratiois much lower than in conventional reinforcements. In Davino et al., the application ofthe hemp ﬁbers to improve the thermal stability of mortar and the compressive strengthwas proposed [121]. Another work researched the compounds obtained with hemp ﬁbersand found [ 119] that the bending strength of concrete that contained hemp braid increasedonly in some of the samples, while in all of them, the average of the ultimate deformationsincreased by 74%.In work presented by El-Feky et al., the nanocellulose ﬁbers in 0.02–0.08% wt.% wereused as an alternative to the carbon-based nanotubes (CNTs), enhancing the mechanicalstrength and microstructure of the concrete [122]. To improve the ductility and toughnessof concrete, ﬁber can be added to create a composite material. At present, scientists andtechnicians have conducted a considerable amount of research on applying natural plantﬁbers such as those from banana, sisal, hemp and ﬂax, jute, coconut, oil palm, and wheatstraw in cement-based composite materials [ 123–128]. The use of natural plant ﬁbers incement composites requires their prior treatment. An example of chemical treatment ofﬁbers is soaking them in an alginate solution and then in calcium chloride. However,most often, the ﬁbers are soaked in NaOH solutions to remove amorphous biologicalresidues, e.g., waxes, and increase their compatibility with the alkaline matrix [124,126–132] .The research showed that additional mechanical properties and strength of concrete areachieved because of the vegetal ﬁbers. Table 3 shows the inﬂuence of various natural ﬁbermaterials on the mechanical properties of concrete. Based on the analysis, compressivestrength was reduced with the ﬁber fraction in the concrete composite. Nonetheless,ﬁbers considerably improved the ﬂexural and the splitting tensile strength of the concrete.Additionally, concrete composites with waste vegetable ﬁbers showed a change in thermalproperties such as lower thermal conductivity and speciﬁc heat capacity, and higher thermaldiffusivity compared to the control mix. [ 129,133]. Besides the above-mentioned examples,another article proposes the application of the palm oil fuel ash, showing that it reducesthe negative impact of steam curing for long-term transport properties [134].Agricultural waste such as natural plant ﬁber, agricultural waste ash, and multi-application waste is a low-cost material that can be used as a concrete ﬁller that offersexcellent value in developing environment-friendly concrete. Depending on the source andthe properties of the material, such as the size of granules or ﬁbers, their concentration, andsurface activation, the mechanical properties of the concrete are altered.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 13 of 23Table 3. Mechanical properties of cement composites with vegetable ﬁbrous ﬁlter, based on [126,129,130,135–141].Type of Cement FibersConcrete MixProportionFiber ContentCompressiveStrength, (MPa)Concrete/CompositeSplittingTensile Strength, (MPa)Concrete/CompositeFlexural Strength,(MPa)Concrete/CompositeRef.Ordinary PortlandCement:Type I 42.5RPrickly pearGravel 910 kg/m3, Sand 444 kg/m3,Cement 350 kg/m3,Water 175 kg/m315 kg/m3 32/22.8after 28 days-2.8/7after 28 days[129]Ordinary PortlandCement:Type I 42.5RPine needleWater, Cement, SandStone, mix ratio 0.49:1:1.615:2.6361 vol.% 40.8/42.13 2.65/2.85 - [126]Ordinary PortlandCement:Type I 42.5RCoconut (coir)Cement 353 kg/m3, Water 194 kg/m3Fine aggregate 698 kg/m3,Coarse aggregate 1257 kg/m30.5 wt.%(by wt.of cement)24/27.5after 28 days8.5/8.7after 28 days- [135]Ordinary PortlandCementBanana Cement, Sand, Water, mix ratio 1:1.5:0.45 0.4 wt.%5.20/8.31after 28 days0.64/1.65after 28 days0.98/2.13after 28 days[130]Ordinary PortlandCement: Type ICoconut (coir)Cement 461 kg/m3, Water 240 kg/m3Fine aggregate 739 kg/m3,Coarse aggregate 898 kg/m31 vol.%35.23/31.3after 28 days3.35/3.58after 28 days4.58/5.44after 28 days[136]Ordinary PortlandCementSisalCement, Fine aggregate, Coarse aggregate, mixratio 1:1.92:3.24, mix ratio Water/Cement 0.521.5 vol.%22.00/23.88 (KN/m2)after 28 days2.31/3.88 (KN/m2)after 28 days3.20/4.92 (KN/m2)after 28 days[137]Ordinary PortlandCementBambooCement, Fine aggregate, Coarse aggregate, mixratio 1:1.86:2.51, mix ratio Water/Cement 0.472 vol.%36.23/36.95after 28 days4.84/5.00after 28 days5.16/6.13after 28 days[138]Ordinary PortlandCementCoconut (coir) Cement, Sand, Water, mix ratio 1:2:0.55 0.3 wt.% 6.5/8.1 after 28 days0.93/1.53after 28 days3.25/4.53after 28 days[139]Ordinary PortlandCementOil palm trunkCement 360 kg/m3, Water 180 kg/m3Fine aggregate 530 kg/m3Coarse aggregate 1075 kg/m31 Vol.% 30.5/39.6 1.6/2.0 27.2/32.2 [140]Ordinary PortlandCementKenafCement 418 kg/m3, Water 230 kg/m3Fine aggregate 725 kg/m3Coarse aggregate 1002 kg/m3Super plasticizer (1%) 4.18 kg/m30.5 Vol%36.03/31.04after 28 days3.68/3.95after 28 days4.65/4.98after 28 days[141]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 14 of 234. DiscussionThe classiﬁcation of acceptable types of cement in Europe is given by BS EN 197-1:2011. It is divided into ﬁve groups: Portland cement and up to 5% of minor additionalconstituents, Portland cement with up to 35% of other SCM, Portland cement with a higherpercentage of blast furnace slag, usually around 60% to 75%, Portland cement with up to55% of selected pozzolanic constituents, and Portland cement blended with GGBS or ﬂyash and pozzolanic material [ 8]. The American Society for Testing and Materials providesother classiﬁcations, which include the original OPC, cements that contain no more than 8%tricalcium aluminate (Ca 3Al) for moderate sulfate resistance, cements with moderate heatof hydration characteristic, more ﬁnely ground OPCs able to produce higher early strengths,cement with no more than 5% Ca 3Al2O6for high sulfate resistance, and cement that allowsthe minimization of the rate and amount of heat generated by hydration. It is expectablethat the strong trend to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from cement production willcontinue in the coming years. This is due to both concern for the environment, as wellas strong economic conditions, including counteracting the impact of new regulations,green taxes, and rising fuel prices on product costs. The SCM application can signiﬁcantlycontribute to the reduction in CO 2emissions; in particular, ceramic waste reduces emissionsby about 29% [ 142], ﬂy ash by 14% [ 143], and condensed silica fume by 15% [ 4,9], whilegeopolymers by even 80% [ 144]. As a consequence, the above division and standard maychange, while the green transformation of the world is in progress [ 145], in particular inthe cement industry [146].4.1. Green Additives to ConcreteBased on the review of selected literature sources, the main types of green additivesused in the production of concrete were determined. The summary being an introductionto the green additives section is presented in Table 4.Table 4. The types of additives used for the production of green concrete, based on [19–153].Green Additive ApplicationInﬂuence on Propertiesof ConcreteSlag [21,29] Binder component Improvement in mechanical and strength propertiesWheat straw ash [22,23,147] Binder componentReduction in the spontaneous shrinkage of high-performanceconcrete and the ﬁnal autogenous contraction of concreteAlkali-activated materials [24] Binder componentMore favorable properties of the entire concrete, such as lowthermal conductivity, high volume stability, rapid strengthgaining, ﬁre, and chemical erosion resistanceCalcium aluminate andcalcium sulphoaluminate(mineral wool waste) [ 27,30,148]Binder componentImprovement of sulfate resistance, enhancement of mechanicalproperties, increase in compressive strengthWaste glasspowder [31,32]Sand substituteImprovement of concrete mechanical properties, such asconcrete tensile strength, compressive strength,and porosityMarble mud dust [33] Sand substituteImprovement of the strength of concrete, freezing propertiesand resistance to thawing and peeling of the concrete surfaceAggregates from the recyclingof construction and demolitionwaste [34,149–153]Component of concretematerialsImprovement of the concrete, especially those used inlower-level applicationsTire rubber-based additives[34–37,41,43,46,148]Gravel substitute, compositeﬁller, additive to sandmortarReduction in the concrete’s weight, improvement of thecompressive and ﬂexural strength, reduction in compressionand tension and a reduction in Young’s modulus of elasticity,reduction in thermal conductivityRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 15 of 23Table 4. Cont.Green Additive ApplicationInﬂuence on Propertiesof ConcretePlastic ﬁbers [57,58] Concrete ﬁllerImprovement of compression performance, durability, ﬂexuraland tensile strength, reduction in the weight of concretepossible release of plasticizers, ﬂame retardants, pigments andheavy metals to the environmentE-waste [72–79] Concrete ﬁllerImprovement of the comprehensive strength of the concrete,tensile, ﬂexural and shear strength, and durability properties,possible release of many harmful compounds to theenvironmentBiocharRice husk [13,89,92,94,95,99] Cement binderReduction in compressive strength, increase in the permeabilityof the concreteBamboo waste [96,97] Pozzolanic material Improvement of mechanical properties, resistance to cracksRice straw [99] Cement binderImprovement of the compressive and tensile strengths, andthermal conductivityFood and wood waste [100] Mortar componentIncrease in the compressive strength, sorptivity, resistance towater penetration, and ductility compared to conventionalmortarForest wood chips [100] Cement binderImprovement of the fracture energy, slight decrease of theﬂexural strengthAgricultural wasteWild vegetal plant [111]Fibrous reinforcingadditiveImprovement of the mechanical strength, positioning of ﬁbershorizontally enhances adhesion with the cement pasteWaste products obtained inpalm oil andcoconut oilprocessing [ 114,135,136,139,140]Gravel substitutesReduction in concrete production costs, improvement themechanical properties of the mortar, such tensile strength, withthe decrease of the compressive strength of concreteHemp ﬁbers [119–121] Mortar componentImprovement of the thermal stability of mortar andcompressive strengthNanocelluloseFibers [122]Composite materialImprovement of the mechanical strength, microstructure, theductility and hardness of concreteVegetal ﬁbers(i.a., prickly pear ﬁbers,pinpeare needle ﬁbers, bananaﬁbers) [127,129,130]Concrete compositesReduction in the compressive strength, improvement in theﬂexural and the splitting tensile strength of the concrete, changein thermal properties such as lower thermal conductivity andspeciﬁc heat capacity, and high thermal diffusivityAs a concrete substitute, high-quality supplementary cementitious material, composedof waste from other industries, constitutes waste management and can also be applied. Theamount of traditional SCMs such as ﬂy ash and slag is limited, particularly in underde-veloped countries. Other materials to partially replace ordinary Portland cement are ofhigh importance. For example, calcium aluminate concentrate products from the recyclingof sanitary waste improve mechanical properties and the high-temperature behavior ofPortland cement [ 148]. CAC provides a practical possibility of recycling glass waste in theproduction of building materials. Moreover, CAC is also a promising additive to Portlandcement to produce 3D-printing mixtures, which are characterized by very good mechanicalproperties. Other widely available waste materials that can be used as components of greencement are sugarcane bagasse ash (SCBA) [ 154], geopolymer metakaolin (MK), and millethusk ash [ 147]. These compounds provide higher compressive strength and split tensilestrength than conventional concrete. Factors such as the presence of uncalcined kaoliniticclay or swelling clays affect the fresh and hardened properties of the concrete [ 155]. OtherRecycling 2022 ,7, 37 16 of 23alternative binders in concrete provide the alkali-activated binders, which require a signiﬁ-cant amount of energy and generate a considerable amount of carbon dioxide during theproduction process.Since the literature widely describes the application of many waste materials fromdemolition waste, glass waste, plastic ﬁbers, carbon black from spent tires, alkali-activatedbinders, biomass-derived biomass, and non-carbonized plant-based materials, primarilythe mechanical strength of the modiﬁed concrete is described [ 149–152]. So far, in thispaper, focus has been placed mainly on the mechanical properties of green concrete.Agricultural waste shows excellent potential in the building industry, particularly inareas with high agricultural production, which results in enormous environmental liabilitiesin some countries. It can improve the mechanical strength, working performance, anddurability of concrete, as these parameters depend on the number of materials incorporatedin cement. Both agricultural waste and biochar particle application as a concrete ﬁllerreduce waste accumulation and prevent natural resource depletion, reducing environmentalpollution caused by carbon dioxide emissions. However, these materials can be at differentmaturity levels and derived from various regions, so their physicochemical propertiesmay vary, inﬂuencing the concrete’s properties. For that reason, natural biomass sourcesrequire pretreatment methods to improve the mechanical properties and durability ofgreen biomass-based waste concrete. At the same time, the mechanical, compressive, andﬂexural strength along with the stability of the non-carbonized waste-based concrete needsimprovement to increase the loads of the concrete; however, the addition of natural crops orﬁbers is a lightweight solution. Pyrolyzed biomass acts well as a gravel substitute, making ita promising aggregate, especially for its small size and usually alkali pH that improves thestability of the concrete. That feature enhances the corrosion resistance, especially in steel-reinforced concrete, where the alkali media can delay the corrosion. Hence, the applicationof the carbon-based particles in the concrete seems to be the most promising solution forthe wide availability of biomass waste, physicochemical properties, and low productioncosts. In turn, concrete containing biochar has a lower density than conventional concrete,and consequently, its scope of application is greater. In addition, the compressive strength,ﬂexural strength, and splitting tensile strength in the case of biochar-based concrete presenta substantial increase. Another interesting alternative is the usage of marine brown algaeas a natural polymer in concrete [156].The e-waste can be used as a concrete additive; however, its use requires adequatesafety procedures. E-waste contains many harmful chemicals from heavy metals such aslead, cadmium, and mercury, and many organic compounds that can be easily released intothe soil, water, and air. The concrete-ﬁlled e-waste is still called green as an effective wayto manage the spent electronic materials; however, from the ecological point of view, thattype of concrete is far from the “green” approach and requires much more materials andenergy consumption than the other concrete additives. Moreover, the e-waste addition toconcrete seems controversial and non-ecological, and may generate severe health problemsif the harmful materials were to leak under the concrete operation because of exposure toenvironmental elements.Another important environmental issue is connected with the high level of freshwaterconsumption during the manufacturing process of the concrete, in particular in the coun-tries in which the supply of fresh water is limited. Freshwater, a hydration reagent and theion transport medium, can be replaced with recycled water from wastewater. Therefore,wastewater can be used for the concrete preparation, reducing production costs. However,as water is a good solvent, it would need pretreatment depending on the wastewatersource to avoid releasing chemicals that would be harmful to the environment and health.Besides the many concrete applications, steel-reinforced concrete is one of the most widelyused materials in the building industry, and each additive can affect the corrosion of thereinforcement. The application of waste materials also needs to be tested on reinforcedconcrete. Green concrete offers many advantages, such as reducing concrete productiontime, shortening the waiting time for curing, lowering construction costs, and, consequently,Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 17 of 23earlier construction project completion. Still, building regulations, including such data asthe levels of clinker and chemical concrete, the cement’s composition, or insufﬁcient dataon the long-term durability of the structure, and the selection of green concrete dependingon its application, are the main challenges in the use of green concrete. The critical issue isalso the development of new and affordable activators.4.2. Future DirectionsDespite the recent developments in building engineering, there is still a need to ﬁll thegap between the laboratory studies and real application. Some of the recommendations forfuture research are: CO 2emission reduction within the green concrete production. Improvement of the waste-modiﬁed concrete with the controlled properties such asthe chemical composition and morphology of the used waste-based materials with theminimization of the pretreatment energy consumption. 3D printing capability of the green concrete. Light-generating studies enabling application of the green concrete for the light ab-sorption capability and light emission. Durability, compression strength, tensile strength, ﬂexural strength, ion penetration,long-term environmental conditions treatment studies of the modiﬁed concrete. Improvement of the electrical conductivity and acoustic wave damping of the waste-loaded concrete as intelligent materials for versatile applications. Improvement of long-life cycle of the green concrete and reusability. Investigation of volume change, such as shrinkage and expansion of the waste-modiﬁed concrete in various experimental conditions such as salinity, humidity, andtemperatures to simulate other geographical regions. Water storage studies and application. Heat storage studies and application in passive buildings. Abrasion resistance, chlorine and sulfate ions resistance, acid resistance, and toughnessof the proposed concrete should also be investigated deeper. One of the most important issues is safety, so despite the leakage studies, the materialsproposed for the concrete application should be carefully selected to reduce the risk ofleakage of harmful chemicals. Improvement of concrete durability, especially towards the seismic damping. Sustainable waste management within the concrete application. IT tools based on Artiﬁcial Intelligence towards prediction of the mechanical propertiesof the green concrete. Scalability towards industrial scale application of green concrete.5. ConclusionsGreen concrete opens the possibilities of managing waste materials and applyingthem in practice. Nevertheless, from the environmental perspective, incorporating wastematerials that may leak harmful compounds (waste plastics, some demolition waste, andsome chemicals) generates secondary pollution that can affect health and ecosystems [ 153].So far, the last point should be the most important in the sustainable building industry andit should be prioritized. By mixing waste materials with mortar, green concrete productionis important for energy consumption reduction; still, some solutions are far from greenwhen taking into the consideration the leakage of harmful chemicals into the environmentunder their application in concrete.Author Contributions: Conceptualization, W.U., M.O. and M.G.; methodology, M.O., S.W. and A.P .;writing—original draft preparation, M.O., A.P ., S.W. and W.U.; writing—review and editing, M.O.,A.P ., S.W., W.U. and M.G.; visualization, S.W. and M.O.; supervision, M.G. All authors have read andagreed to the published version of the manuscript.Funding: This research received no external funding.Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 18 of 23Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.Data Availability Statement: The study did not report any data.Acknowledgments: Authors would like to thank Karol Masztalerz from the University of Manchesterfor proofreading. M.O. would like to thank Agnieszka D ˛ abrowska for the few images included inthe visualization.Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest.References1. Sariatli, F. Linear economy versus circular economy: A comparative and analyzer study for optimization of economy forsustainabilty. Visegr. J. Bioeconomy Sustain. Dev. 2017 ,1, 31. [CrossRef]2. Gartner, E.M.; Macphee, D.E. A physico-chemical basis for novel cementitious binders. Cem. Concr. Res. 2011 ,41,736–749. [CrossRef]3. Liew, K.M.; Sojobi, A.O.; Zhang, L.W. Green concrete: Prospects and challenges. Constr. Build. Mater. 2017 ,156,1063–1095. [CrossRef]4. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). U.S. Green Building Council, Washington, DC, USA. Available online:https://www.usgbc.org (accessed on 1 May 2022).5. Coffetti, D.; Crotti, E.; Gazzaniga, G.; Carrara, M.; Pastore, T.; Coppola, L. Pathways towards sustainable concrete. Cem. Concr.Res. 2022 ,254, 106718. [CrossRef]6. Damtoft, J.S.; Lukasik, J.; Herfort, D.; Sorrentino, D.; Gartner, E.M. Sustainable development and climate change initiatives. Cem.Concr. Res. 2008 ,38, 115–127. [CrossRef]7. Sivakrishna, A.; Adesina, A.; Awoyera, P .O.; Rajesh Kumar, K. Green concrete: A review of recent developments. Mater. TodayProc. 2020 ,27, 54–58. [CrossRef]8. Imbabi, M.S.; Carrigan, C.; McKenna, S. Trends and developments in green cement and concrete technology. Int. J. Sustain. BuiltEnviron. 2012 ,1, 194–216. [CrossRef]9. Danish, A.; Salim, M.; Ahmed, T. Trends and developments in green cement “A sustainable approach”. Sustain. Struct. Mater.2019 ,2, 45–60. [CrossRef]10. Anandaraj, S.; Rooby, J.; Awoyera, P .O.; Gobinath, R. Structural distress in glass ﬁbre-reinforced concrete under loading andexposure to aggressive environments. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,197, 862–870. [CrossRef]11. Awoyera, P .O.; Akinmusuru, J.O.; Ndambuki, J.M. Green concrete production with ceramic wastes and laterite. Constr. Build.Mater. 2016 ,117, 29–36. [CrossRef]12. Shi, C.; Day , R.L. Comparison of different methods for enhancing reactivity of pozzolans. Cem. Concr. Res. 2001 ,31, 813–818. [CrossRef]13. Saad, S.A.; Nuruddin, M.F.; Shaﬁq, N.; Ali, M. The Effect of Incineration Temperature to the Chemical and Physical Prop-erties of Ultraﬁne Treated Rice Husk Ash (UFTRHA) as Supplementary Cementing Material (SCM). Procedia Eng. 2016 ,148, 163–167. [CrossRef]14. Liberati, A.; Altman, D.G.; Tetzlaff, J.; Mulrow, C.; Gotzsche, P .C.; Ioannidis, J.P .A.; Clarke, M.; Devereaux, P .J.; Kleijnen, J.;Moher, D. The PRISMA Statement for Reporting Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses of Studies That Evaluate Health CareInterventions: Explanation and Elaboration. PLoS Med. 2009 ,6, e1000100. [CrossRef] [PubMed]15. Rethlefsen, M.L.; Kirtley, S.; Waffenschmidt, S.; Ayala, A.P .; Moher, D.; Page, M.J.; Koffel, J.B. PRISMA-S: An extension to thePRISMA Statement for Reporting Literature Searches in Systematic Reviews. Syst. Rev. 2021 ,10, 39. [CrossRef]16. Shamseer, L.; Moher, D.; Clarke, M.; Ghersi, D.; Liberati, A.; Petticrew, M.; Shekelle, P .; Stewart, L.A. Preferred Reporting Items forSystematic Review and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) 2015: Elaboration and explanation. BMJ 2015 ,349, 7647. [CrossRef]17. Juenger, M.C.G.; Winnefeld, F.; Provis, J.L.; Ideker, J.H. Advances in alternative cementitious binders. Cem. Concr. Res. 2011 ,41, 1232–1243. [CrossRef]18. Tironi, A.; Trezza, M.A.; Scian, A.N.; Irassar, E.F. Assessment of pozzolanic activity of different calcined clays. Cem. Concr. Compos.2013 ,37, 319–332. [CrossRef]19. Ashraf, M.; Iqbal, M.F.; Rauf, M.; Ashraf, M.U.; Ulhaq, A.; Muhammad, H.; Liu, Q. Developing a sustainable concrete incorporatingbentonite clay and silica fume: Mechanical and durability performance. J. Clean. Prod. 2022 ,337, 130315. [CrossRef]20. Beskopylny, A.; Stel’makh, S.A.; Shcherban, E.M.; Mailyan, L.R.; Meskhi, B. Nano modifying additive micro silica inﬂuence onintegral and differential characteristics of vibrocentrifuged concrete. J. Build. Eng. 2022 ,51, 104235. [CrossRef]21. Chen, R.; Li, Y.; Xiang, R.; Li, S. Effect of particle size of ﬂy ash on the properties of lightweight insulation materials. Constr. Build.Mater. 2016 ,123, 120–126. [CrossRef]22. Capucci, G.M.; Rufﬁni, V .; Barbieri, V .; Siligardi, C.; Ferrari, A.M. Life cycle assessment of wheat husk based agro-concrete block.J. Clean. Prod. 2022 ,349, 131437. [CrossRef]23. Amin, M.N.; Siffat, M.A.; Shahzada, K.; Khan, K. Inﬂuence of Fineness of Wheat Straw Ash on Autogenous Shrinkage andMechanical Properties of Green Concrete. Crystals 2022 ,12, 588. [CrossRef]24. Sun, B.; Ye, G.; de Schutter, G. A review: Reaction mechanism and strength of slag and ﬂy ash-based alkali-activated materials.Constr. Build. Mater. 2022 ,326, 126843. [CrossRef]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 19 of 2325. Naqi, A.; Jang, J.G. Recent Progress in Green Cement Technology Utilizing Low-Carbon Emission Fuels and Raw Materials: AReview. Sustainability 2019 ,11, 537. [CrossRef]26. Habert, G. Assessing the environmental impact of conventional and ‘green’ cement production. In Eco-Efﬁcient Construction andBuilding Materials ; Woodhead Publishing: Thorston, UK, 2014; pp. 199–238. [CrossRef]27. Shi, C.; Jim énez, A.F.; Palomo, A. New cements for the 21st century: The pursuit of an alternative to Portland cement. Cem. Concr.Res. 2011 ,41, 750–763. [CrossRef]28. Ababneh, A.; Matalkah, F.; Matalkeh, B. Effects of kaolin characteristics on the mechanical properties of alkali-activated binders.Constr. Build. Mater. 2022 ,318, 126020. [CrossRef]29. Ahmed, M.M.; El-Naggar, K.A.M.; Tarek, D.; Ragab, A.; Sameh, H.; Zeyad, A.M.; Tayeh, B.A.; Maafa, I.M.; Yousef, A. Fab-rication of thermal insulation geopolymer bricks using ferrosilicon slag and alumina waste. Case Stud. Constr. Mater. 2021 ,15, e00737. [CrossRef]30. Scrivener, K.; Capmas, A. Calcium aluminate cements. In Lea’s Chemistry of Cement and Concrete , 4th ed.; Hewlett, P .C., Ed.; ArnoldPublishers: London, UK, 1998; pp. 709–778.31. Ismail, Z.; Al-Hashmi, E. Recycling of waste glass as a partial replacement for ﬁne aggregate in concrete. Waste Manag. 2009 ,29, 655–659. [CrossRef]32. Aliabdo, A.A.; Elmoaty, A.; Aboshama, A.Y. Utilization of waste glass powder in the production of cement and concrete. Constr.Build. Mater. 2016 ,124, 866–877. [CrossRef]33. Shukla, A.; Gupta, N.; Gupta, A. Development of green concrete using waste marble dust. Mater. Today Proc. 2020 ,26,2590–2594. [CrossRef]34. Rao, A.; Jha, K.; Misra, S. Use of aggregates from recycled construction and demolition waste in concrete. Resour. Conserv. Recycl.2007 ,50, 71–81. [CrossRef]35. Abdulfattah, O.; Alsurakji, I.H.; El-Qanni, A.; Samaaneh, M.; Najjar, M.; Abdallah, R.; Assaf, I. Experimental evaluation ofusing pyrolyzed carbon black derived from waste tires as additive towards sustainable concrete. Case Stud. Constr. Mater. 2022 ,16, e00938. [CrossRef]36. Ali, F.; Khan, M.A.; Qurashi, M.A.; Shah, S.A.R.; Khan, N.M.; Khursheed, Z.; Rahim, H.S.; Arshad, H.; Farhan, M.; Waseem, M.Utilization of pyrolytic carbon black waste for the development of sustainable materials. Processes 2020 ,8, 174. [CrossRef]37. Bompa, D.V .; Elghazouli, A.Y.; Xu, B.; Stafford, P .J.; Ruiz-Teran, A.M. Experimental assessment and constitutive modelling ofrubberised concrete materials. Constr. Build. Mater. 2017 ,137, 246–260. [CrossRef]38. Thomas, B.S.; Gupta, R.C. A comprehensive review on the applications of waste tire rubber in cement concrete. Renew. Sustain.Energy Rev. 2016 ,54, 1323–1333. [CrossRef]39. Hern ández-Olivares, F.; Barluenga, G.; Parga-Landa, B.; Bollati, M.; Witoszek, B. Fatigue behaviour of recycled tyre rubber-ﬁlledconcrete and its implications in the design of rigid pavements. Constr. Build. Mater. 2007 ,21, 1918–1927. [CrossRef]40. Khatib, Z.K.; Bayomy, F.M. Rubberized Portland cement concrete. J. Mater. Civ. Eng. 1999 ,11, 206–213. [CrossRef]41. Najim, K.B.; Hall, M.R. Mechanical and dynamic properties of self-compacting crumb rubber modiﬁed concrete. Constr. Build.Mater. 2012 ,27, 521–530. [CrossRef]42. Roychand, R.; Gravina, R.J.; Zhuge, Y.; Ma, X.; Youssf, O.; Mills, J.E. A comprehensive review on the mechanical properties ofwaste tire rubber concrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2020 ,237, 117651. [CrossRef]43. Siddika, A.; Al Mamun, M.A.; Alyousef, R.; Amran, Y.H.M.; Aslani, F.; Alabduljabbar, H. Properties and utilizations of waste tirerubber in concrete: A review. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,224, 711–731. [CrossRef]44. Xu, J.; Yao, Z.; Yang, G.; Han, Q. Research on crumb rubber concrete: From a multi-scale review. Constr. Build. Mater. 2020 ,232, 117282. [CrossRef]45. Strukar, K.; Sipos, T.K.; Milicevic, I.; Busic, R. Potential use of rubber as aggregate in structural reinforced concrete element—A review. Eng. Struct. 2019 ,188, 452–468. [CrossRef]46. Pivak, A.; Pavlikova, M.; Zaleska, M.; Reiterman, P .; Barnat-Hunek, D.; Pavlik, Z. Magnesia-based cement composites withrecycled waste tire rubber ﬁller. AIP Conf. Proc. 2022 ,2425 , 070003. [CrossRef]47. Rah, A.; Ali, A.; Mahmood, N.; Kadhum, M.M. Effect of the waste rubber tires aggregate on some properties of normal concrete.Eng. Technol. J. 2022 ,40, 275–281. [CrossRef]48. Mahesh, V .; Mahesh, V .; Nagaraj, S.M.; Subhashaya, P .; Singh, G.; Singh, T.S. Physio-mechanical and thermal characterization ofjute/rubber crumb hybrid composites and selection of optimal conﬁguration using the MADM approach. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng.Part C 2022 , 09544062221079166. [CrossRef]49. Smain, B.; Yacine, A. Rubber inﬂuence on the performance of thermal insulating quarry sand mortars—A statistical analysis. Adv.Mater. Sci. 2022 ,22, 23–35. [CrossRef]50. Soﬁ, A. Effect of waste tyre rubber on mechanical and durability properties of concrete—A review. Ain Shams Eng. J. 2018 ,9, 2691–2700. [CrossRef]51. Evans, J.J. Rubber tire leachates in the aquatic environment. Rev. Environ. Contam. Toxicol. 1997 ,151, 67–115. [CrossRef]52. Wik, A.; Dave, G. Acute toxicity of leachates of tire wear material to Daphnia magna—Variability and toxic components.Chemophere 2006 ,64, 1777–1784. [CrossRef]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 20 of 2353. Sheehan, P .J.; Warmerdam, J.M.; Ogle, S.; Humphrey, D.N.; Patenaude, S.M. Evaluating the risk to aquatic ecosystems posed byleachate from tire shred ﬁll in roads using toxicity tests, toxicity identiﬁcation evaluations, and groundwater modeling. Environ.Toxicol. Chem. 2006 ,25, 400–411. [CrossRef]54. Wik, A.; Dave, G. Occurrence and effects of tire wear particles in the environment—A critical review and an initial risk assessment.Environ. Pollut. 2009 ,157, 1–11. [CrossRef] [PubMed]55. Gualtieri, M.; Andrioletti, M.; Mantecca, P .; Vismara, C.; Camatini, M. Impact of tire debris on in vitro and in vivo systems. Part.Fibre Toxicol. 2005 ,2, 1. [CrossRef] [PubMed]56. Gualtieri, M.; Mantecca, P .; Cetta, F.; Camatini, M. Organic compounds in tire particle induce reactive oxygen species andheat-shock proteins in the human alveolar cell line A549. Environ. Int. 2008 ,34, 437–442. [CrossRef] [PubMed]57. Qin, Y.; Zhang, X.; Chai, J.; Xu, Z.; Li, S. Experimental study of compressive behavior of polypropylene-ﬁber-fabric-reinforcedconcrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,194, 216–225. [CrossRef]58. Mohebi, Z.H.; Bahnamiri, A.B.; Dehestani, M. Effect of polypropylene ﬁbers on bond performance of reinforcing bars in highstrength concrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,215, 401–409. [CrossRef]59. Conforti, A.; Tiberti, G.; Plizzari, G.A.; Caratelli, A.; Meda, A. Precast tunnel segments reinforced by macro-synthetic ﬁbers. Tunn.Undergr. Space Technol. 2017 ,63, 1–11. [CrossRef]60. Fallah, S.; Nematzadeh, M. Mechanical properties and durability of high-strength concrete containing macro-polymeric andpolypropylene ﬁbers with nano-silica and silica fume. Constr. Build. Mater. 2017 ,132, 170–187. [CrossRef]61. Medina, N.F.; Barluenga, G.B.; Hern ández-Olivares, F. Enhancement of durability of concrete composites containing naturalpozzolans blended cement through the use of Polypropylene ﬁbers. Compos. Part B Eng. 2014 ,61, 214–221. [CrossRef]62. Karahan, O.; Atis, C.D. The durability properties of polypropylene ﬁber reinforced ﬂy ash concrete. Mater. Des. 2011 ,32, 1044–1049. [CrossRef]63. Li, J.J.; Niu, J.G.; Wan, C.J.; Jin, B.; Yin, Y.L. Investigation on mechanical properties and microstructure of high performancepolypropylene ﬁber reinforced lightweight aggregate concrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2016 ,118, 27–35. [CrossRef]64. Hameed, A.M.; Ahmed, B.A. Employment the plastic waste to produce the light weight concrete. Energy Procedia 2019 ,157,30–38. [CrossRef]65. Kaur, G.; Pavia, S. Physical properties and microstructure of plastic aggregate mortars made with acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene(ABS), polycarbonate (PC), polyoxymethylene (POM) and ABS/PC blend waste. J. Build. Eng. 2020 ,31, 101341. [CrossRef]66. Boonsiri, T.; Ruckchonlatee, S.; Jangchud, I. Wood plastic composites (WPCs)from multilayer packaging wastes and rHDPE aspallets for green industry. IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2022 ,1234 , 012022. [CrossRef]67. Lin, C.; Mo, Z.; Meng, X. Construction Mechanics of Nano Pva Modiﬁed Fiber Cement Soil. J. Civ. Eng. Urban Plan. 2022 ,4,17–29. [CrossRef]68. Pacheco-Torgal, F.; Jalali, S.; Fucic, A. Toxicity of Buliding Materials ; Woodhead Publishing: Cambridge, UK, 2012.69. Prahallada, M.C.; Prakash, K.B. Strenght and workability characteristics of waste plastic ﬁbre reinforced concrete produced fromrecycled aggregates. Int. J. Eng. Res. Appl. 2011 ,1, 1791–1802.70. Laskar, N.; Kumar, U. Plastics and microplastics: A threat to environment. Environ. Technol. Innov. 2019 ,14, 100352. [CrossRef]71. D ˛ abrowska, A. Microplastics pollution. In Applied Water Science Volume 1: Fundamentals and Applications ; Inamuddin Ahamed,M.I., Boddula, R., Rangreez, T.A., Eds.; Scrivener Publishing LLC: Beverly, MA, USA, 2021; Chapter 4. [CrossRef]72. Ullah, S.; Qureshi, M.I.; Joyklad, P .; Suparp, S.; Hussain, Q.; Chaiyasarn, K.; Yooprasertchai, E. Effect of partial replacement ofE-waste as a ﬁne aggregate on compressive behavior of concrete specimens having different geometry with and without CFRPconﬁnement. J. Build. Eng. 2022 ,50, 104151. [CrossRef]73. Balasubramanian Gopala, K.; Saraswathy, V . Investigation on partial replacement of coarse aggregate using E-waste in concrete.Int. J. Earth Sci. Eng. 2016 ,9, 285–288.74. Kale, S.P .; Pathan, H.I. Recycling of demolished concrete and E-waste. Int. J. Sci. Res. 2015 ,4, 789–792.75. Arora, A.; Dave, U.V . Utilization of e-waste and plastic bottle waste in concrete. Int. J. Stud. Res. Technol. Manag. 2013 ,1, 398–406.76. Luhar, S.; Luhar, I. Potential application of E-wastes in construction industry: A review. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,203,222–240. [CrossRef]77. Rautela, R.; Arya, S.; Vishwakarma, S.; Lee, J.; Kim, K.; Kumar, S. E-waste management and its effects on the environment andhuman health. Sci. Total Environ. 2021 ,773, 145623. [CrossRef] [PubMed]78. Lin, S.; Ali, M.U.; Zheng, C.; Cai, Z.; Wong, M.H. Toxic chemicals from uncontrolled e-waste recycling: Exposure, body burden,health impact. J. Hazard. Mater. 2022 ,426, 127792. [CrossRef] [PubMed]79. Ahirwar, R.; Tripathi, A.K. E-waste management: A review of recycling process, environmental and occupational health hazards,and potential solutions. Environ. Nanotechnol. Monit. Manag. 2021 ,15, 100409. [CrossRef]80. Chen, Y.; Chen, M.; Li, Y.; Wang, B.; Chen, S.; Xu, Z. Impact of technological innovation and regulation development on e-wastetoxicity: A case study of waste mobile phones. Sci. Rep. 2018 ,8, 7100. [CrossRef]81. Wang, L.; Chen, L.; Tsang, D.C.W.; Guo, B.; Yang, J.; Shen, Z.; Hou, D.; Ok, Y.S.; Poon, C.S. Biochar as green additives incement-based composites with carbon dioxide curing. J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,258, 120678. [CrossRef]82. Chen, X.; Li, J.; Xue, Q.; Huang, X.; Liu, L.; Poon, C.S. Sludge biochar as a green additive in cement-based composites: Mechanicalproperties and hydration kinetics. Constr. Build. Mater. 2020 ,262, 120723. [CrossRef]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 21 of 2383. Assaggaf, R.A.; Ali, M.R.; Al-Dulaijan, S.U.; Maslehuddin, M. Properties of concrete with untreated and treated crumb rubber—Areview. J. Mater. Res. Technol. 2021 ,11, 1753–1798. [CrossRef]84. Gupta, S.; Tulliani, J.M.; Kua, H.W. Carbonaceous admixtures in cementitious building materials: Effect of particle size blendingon rheology, packing, early age properties and processing energy demand. Sci. Total Env. 2022 ,807, 150884. [CrossRef]85. Cosentino, I.; Restuccia, L.; Ferro, G.A.; Tulliani, J.M. Type of materials, pyrolysis conditions, carbon content and size dimensions:The parameters that inﬂuence the mechanical properties of biochar cement-based composites. Theor. Appl. Fract. Mech. 2019 ,103, 102261. [CrossRef]86. Danish, A.; Mosaberpanah, M.A.; Salim, M.U.; Ahmad, N.; Ahmad, F.; Ahmad, A. Reusing biochar as a ﬁller or cementreplacement material in cementitious composites: A review. Constr. Build. Mater. 2021 ,300, 124295. [CrossRef]87. Tomczyk, A.; Sokołowska, Z.; Boguta, P . Biochar physicochemical properties: Pyrolysis temperature and feedstock kind effects.Rev. Environ. Sci. Biotechnol. 2020 ,19, 191–215. [CrossRef]88. Tan, K.; Pang, X.; Qin, Y.; Wang, J. Properties of cement containing pulverized biochar pyrolyzed at different temperatures. Constr.Build. Mater. 2020 ,263, 120616. [CrossRef]89. Hu, L.; He, Z.; Zhang, S. Sustainable use of rice husk ash in cement-based materials: Environmental evaluation and performanceimprovement. J. Clean. Prod. 2020 ,264, 121744. [CrossRef]90. Restuccia, L.; Ferro, G.A.; Suarez-Riera, D.; Srico, A.; Bernardi, P .; Belleti, B.; Malcevschi, A. Mechanical characterization ofdifferent biochar-based cement composites. Procedia Struct. Integr. 2020 ,25, 226–233. [CrossRef]91. Wang, L.; Chen, L.; Tsang, D.C.W.; Kua, H.W.; Yang, J.; Ok, Y.S.; Ding, S.; Hou, D.; Poon, C.S. The roles of biochar as greenadmixture for sediment-based construction products. Cem. Concr. Compos. 2019 ,104, 103348. [CrossRef]92. Zeidabadi, Z.A.; Bakhtiari, S.; Abbaslou, H.; Ghanizadeh, A.R. Synthesis, characterization and evaluation of biochar fromagricultural waste biomass for use in building materials. Constr. Build. Mater. 2018 ,181, 301–308. [CrossRef]93. Winters, D.; Boakye, K.; Simske, S. Toward Carbon-Neutral Concrete through Biochar–Cement–Calcium Carbonate Composites:A Critical Review. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 4633. [CrossRef]94. Zunino, F.; Lopez, M. Decoupling the physical and chemical effects of supplementary cementitious materials on strength andpermeability: A multi-level approach. Cem. Concr. Compos. 2016 ,65, 19–28. [CrossRef]95. Abalaka, A.E. Strength and some durability properties of concrete containing rice husk ash produced in a charcoal incinerator atlow speciﬁc surface. Int. J. Concr. Struct. Mater. 2013 ,7, 287–293. [CrossRef]96. van der Lugt, P .; van den Dobbelsteen, A.A.J.F.; Janssen, J.J.A. An environmental, economic and practical assessment of bambooas a building material for supporting structures. Constr. Build. Mater. 2006 ,20, 648–656. [CrossRef]97. Liu, W.; Xu, S.; Li, K. Utilizing Bamboo Biochar in Cement Mortar as a Bio-Modiﬁer to Improve the Compressive Strength andCrack-Resistance Fracture Ability. Constr. Build. Mater. 2022 ,327, 126917. [CrossRef]98. Akhtar, A.; Sarmah, A.K. Novel biochar-concrete composites: Manufacturing, characterization and evaluation of the mechanicalproperties. Sci. Total Environ. 2018 ,616–617 , 408–416. [CrossRef] [PubMed]99. Ataie, F. Inﬂuence of rice straw ﬁbers on concrete strength and drying shrinkage. Sustainability 2018 ,10, 2445. [CrossRef]100. Gupta, S.; Kua, H.W.; Koh, H.J. Application of biochar from food and wood waste as green admixture for cement mortar. Sci.Total Environ. 2018 ,619–620 , 419–435. [CrossRef]101. Pranteeh, S.; Guo, R.; Wang, T.; Dubey, B.K.; Sarmah, A.K. Accelerated carbonation of biochar reinforced cement-ﬂy ashcomposites: Enhancing and sequestering CO 2in building materials. Constr. Build. Mater. 2020 ,244, 118363. [CrossRef]102. Chen, L.; Wang, l.; Zhang, Y.; Ruan, S.; Mechthcerine, V .; Tsang, D.C.W. Roles of biochar in cement-based stabiliza-tion/solidiﬁcation of municipal solid waste incineration ﬂy ash. Chem. Eng. J. 2022 ,430, 132972. [CrossRef]103. Wang, S.; Miller, A.; Llamazos, E.; Fonseca, F.; Baxter, L. Biomass ﬂy ash in concrete: Mixture proportioning and mechanicalproperties. Fuel 2008 ,87, 365–371. [CrossRef]104. Milovanovic, B.; Strimer, N.; Carevic, I.; Baricevic, A. Wodd biomass ash as raw material in concrete industry. Gradevinar 2016 ,71, 505–514. [CrossRef]105. Wang, S.; Baxter, L. Comprehensive study of biomass ﬂy ash in concrete: Strength, microscopy, kinetics and durability. FuelProcess. Technol. 2007 ,88, 1165–1170. [CrossRef]106. Omran, A.; Soliman, N.; Xie, A.; Davidenko, T.; Tagnit-Hamou, A. Field trials with concrete incorporating biomass-ﬂy ash. Constr.Build. Mater. 2018 ,186, 660–669. [CrossRef]107. Qin, Y.; Pang, X.; Tan, K.; Bao, T. Evaluation of pervious concrete performance with pulverized biochar as cement replacement.Cem. Concr. Compos. 2021 ,119, 104022. [CrossRef]108. Sirico, A.; Bernardi, P .; Belleti, B.; Malcevshi, A.; Dalcanale, E.; Domenichelli, I.; Foroni, P .; Moretti, E. Mechanical characterizationof cement-based materials containing biochar from gasiﬁcation. Constr. Build. Mater. 2020 ,246, 118490. [CrossRef]109. Chen, L.; Zhang, Y.; Wang, L.; Ruan, S.; Chen, J.; Li, H.; Yang, J.; Mechtcherine, V .; Tsang, D.C.W. Biochar-augmented carbon-negative concrete. Chem. Eng. J. 2022 ,43, 133946. [CrossRef]110. Sethunarayanan, R.; Chockalingam, S.; Ramanathan, R. Natural ﬁber reinforced concrete. Transp. Res. Rec. 1989 ,1226 , 57–60.111. Sellami, A.; Merzoud, M.; Amziane, S. Improvement of mechanical properties of green concrete by treatment of the vegetalsﬁbers. Constr. Build. Mater. 2013 ,47, 1117–1124. [CrossRef]112. Olanipekun, E.A.; Olusola, K.O.; Ata, O. A comparative study of concrete properties using coconut shell and palm kernel shell ascoarse aggregates. Build. Environ. 2006 ,41, 297–301. [CrossRef]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 22 of 23113. Kriker, A.; Debicki, G.; Bali, A.; Khenfer, M.; Chabannet, M. Mechanical properties of date palm ﬁbers and concrete reinforcedwith date palm ﬁbers in hot-dry climate. Cem. Concr. Compos. 2005 ,27, 554–564. [CrossRef]114. Lim, K.C.; Rahman, Z.A. The effects of oil palm empty fruit bunches on oil palm nutrition and yield, and soil chemical properties.J. Oil Palm Res. 2022 ,14, 1–9.115. Torgal, F.P .; Jalali, S. Natural ﬁber reinforced concrete. In Fibrous and Composite Materials for Civil Engineering Applications ;Woodhead Publishing: Thorston, UK, 2011; pp. 154–167. [CrossRef]116. Reis, J.M.L. Fracture and ﬂexural characterization of natural ﬁber-reinforced polymer concrete. Constr. Buil. Mater. 2006 ,20, 673–678. [CrossRef]117. Castillo-Lara, J.F.; Flores-Johnson, E.A.; Valadez-Gonzalez, A.; Herrera-Franco, P .J.; Carrillo, J.G.; Gonzalez-Chi, P .I.; Li, Q.M.Mechanical Properties of Natural Fiber Reinforced Foamed Concrete. Materials 2020 ,13, 3060. [CrossRef] [PubMed]118. Mhlongo, J.T.; Nuapia, Y.; Motsa, M.M.; Mahlangu, T.O.; Etale, A. Green chemistry approaches for extraction of cellulosenanoﬁbers (CNFs): A comparison of mineral and organic acids. Mater. Today Proc. 2022 ,in press . [CrossRef]119. Jami, T.; Karade, S.R.; Singh, L.P . A review of the properties of hemp concrete for green building applications. J. Clean. Prod. 2019 ,239, 117852. [CrossRef]120. Facca, A.G.; Kortschot, M.T.; Yan, N. Predicting the elastic modulus of natural ﬁbre reinforced thermoplastics. Compos. Part AAppl. Sci. Manuf. 2006 ,37, 1660–1671. [CrossRef]121. Davino, A.; Meglio, E.; Formisano, A. Lime-Based Plaster Reinforced with Hemp Braids as Sustainable Building Product.Architecture 2022 ,2, 135–156. [CrossRef]122. El-Feky, M.S.; El-Tair, A.M.; Kohail, M.; Serag, M.I. Nano-ﬁbrillated cellulose as a green alternative to carbon nanotubes in nanoreinforced cement composites. Int. J. Eng. Innov. Technol. 2019 ,8, 2278–3075. [CrossRef]123. Zea Escamilla, E.B.B.; Wallbaum, H. Environmental savings from the use of vegetable ﬁbres as concrete reinforcement.In Proceedings of the ISEC 2011-6th International Structural Engineering and Construction Conference, Zürich, Switzerland,21–26 June 2011; pp. 1315–1320. [CrossRef]124. Ali, M.; Chouw, N. Experimental investigations on coconut-ﬁbre rope tensile strength and pullout from coconut ﬁbre reinforcedconcrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2013 ,41, 681–690. [CrossRef]125. Farooqi, M.U.; Ali, M. Contribution of plant ﬁbers in improving the behavior and capacity of reinforced concrete for structuralapplications. Constr. Build. Mater. 2018 ,182, 94–107. [CrossRef]126. Long, W.; Wang, Y. Effect of pine needle ﬁbre reinforcement on the mechanical properties of concrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2021 ,278, 122333. [CrossRef]127. Elbehiry, A.; Elnawawy, O.; Kassem, M.; Zaher, A.; Uddin, N.; Mostafa, M. Performance of concrete beams reinforced usingbanana ﬁber bars. Case Stud. Constr. Mater. 2020 ,13, e00361. [CrossRef]128. Olaoye, R.A.; Oluremi, J.R.; Ajamu, S.O. The Use of Fibre Waste as Complement in Concrete for a Sustainable Environment. Innov.Syst. Des. Eng. 2013 ,4, 91–98.129. Kammoun, Z.; Trabelsi, A. Development of lightweight concrete using prickly pear ﬁbres. Constr. Build. Mater. 2019 ,210,269–277. [CrossRef]130. Nensok, M.H.; Mydin, M.A.O.; Awang, H. Optimization of mechanical properties of cellular lightweight concrete with alkalitreated banana ﬁber. Rev. Constr. 2021 ,20, 491–511. [CrossRef]131. Mansilla, C.; Pradena, M.; Fuentealba, C.; C ésar, A. Evaluation of mechanical properties of concrete reinforced with eucalyptusglobulus bark ﬁbres. Sustainability 2020 ,12, 10026. [CrossRef]132. Ali, M. Use of coconut ﬁbre reinforced concrete and coconut-ﬁbre ropes for seismic-resistant construction. Mater. Constr. 2016 ,66, e073. [CrossRef]133. Suhaili, S.S.; Mydin, M.A.O.; Awang, H. Inﬂuence of Mesocarp Fibre Inclusion on Thermal Properties of Foamed Concrete. J. Adv.Res. Fluid Mech. Therm. Sci. 2021 ,87, 1–11. [CrossRef]134. Zeyad, A.M.; Azmi, M.; Johari, M.; Abadel, A.; Abutaleb, A.; Mijarsh, M.J.A.; Almalki, A. Transport properties of palm oil fuel ash-based high-performance green concrete subjected to steam curing regimes. Case Stud. Constr. Mater. 2022 ,16, e01077. [CrossRef]135. Babafemi, A.J.; Kolawole, J.T.; Olalusi, O.B. Mechanical and durability properties of coir ﬁbre reinforced concrete. J. Eng. Sci.Technol. 2019 ,14, 1482–1496.136. Ogunbode, E.B.; Egba, E.I.; Olaiju, O.A.; Elnafaty, A.S.; Kawuwa, S.A. Microstructure and mechanical properties of green concretecomposites containing coir ﬁbre. Chem. Eng. Trans. 2017 ,61, 1879–1884. [CrossRef]137. Saravanan, N.; Buvaneshwari, M. Experimental Investigation on Behaviour of Natural Fibre Concrete (Sisal Fibre). Int. J. Sci. Res.Eng. Trends 2018 ,4, 528–531.138. Kumarasamy, K.; Shyamala, G.; Gebreyowhanse, H. Kumarasamy Strength Properties of Bamboo Fiber Reinforced Concrete. IOPConf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 2020 ,981, 032063. [CrossRef]139. Mohamad, N.; Iman, M.A.; Mydin, M.A.O.; Samad, A.A.A.; Rosli, J.A.; Noorwirdawati, A. Mechanical properties and ﬂexurebehaviour of lightweight foamed concrete incorporating coir ﬁbre. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2018 ,140, 012140. [CrossRef]140. Ahmad, Z.; Saman, H.M.; Tahir, P .M. Oil Palm Trunk Fiber as a Bio-Waste Resource for Concrete Reinforcement. Int. J. Mech.Mater. Eng. 2010 ,5, 199–207.141. Babatunde, O.E.; Yatim, J.M.; Razavi, M.; Yunus, I.M.; Azzmi, N.M. Experimental Study of Kenaf Bio Fibrous Concrete Composites.Adv. Sci. Lett. 2018 ,24, 3922–3927. [CrossRef]Recycling 2022 ,7, 37 23 of 23142. Trezza, M.A.; Zito, S.; Tironi, A.; Irassar, E.F.; Rahhal, V .F. Portland blended cements: Demolition ceramic waste management.Mater. Constr. 2017 ,67, e114. [CrossRef]143. Yang, K.-H.; Jung, Y.-B.; Cho, M.-S.; Tae, S.-H. Effect of supplementary cementitious materials on reduction of CO 2emissionsfrom concrete. J. Clean. Prod. 2015 ,103, 774–783. [CrossRef]144. Das, S.K.; Mohapatra, A.K.; Rath, A.K. Geo-polymer Concrete–Green Concrete for the Future—A Review. Int. J. Civ. Eng. Res.2014 ,5, 21–28.145. Cheba, K.; B ˛ ak, I.; Szopik-Depczy ´ nska, K.; Ioppolo, G. Directions of green transformation of the European Union countries. Ecol.Indic. 2022 ,136, 108601. [CrossRef]146. Lu, Y.L.; Geng, J.; He, G.Z. Industrial transformation and green production to reduce environmental emissions: Taking cementindustry as a case. Adv. Clim. Chang. Res. 2015 ,6, 202–209. [CrossRef]147. Khan, K.; Ishfaq, M.; Amin, M.N.; Shahzada, K.; Wahab, N.; Faraz, M.I. Evaluation of Mechanical and Microstructural Propertiesand Global Warming Potential of Green Concrete with Wheat Straw Ash and Silica Fume. Materials 2022 ,15, 3177. [CrossRef]148. Zapata, J.F.; Azevedo, A.; Fontes, C.; Monteiro, S.N.; Colorado, H.A. Environmental Impact and Sustainability of CalciumAluminate Cements. Sustainability 2022 ,14, 2751. [CrossRef]149. Grădinaru, C.M.; ¸ Serb ănoiu, A.A.; Babor, D.T.; S ârbu, G.C.; Petrescu-Mag, I.V .; Grb ădinaru, A.C. When Agricultural WasteTransforms into an Environmentally Friendly Material: The Case of Green Concrete as Alternative to Natural Resources Depletion.J. Agric. Environ. Ethics 2019 ,32, 77–93. [CrossRef]150. Rahimi, S.R.; Nikbin, I.M.; Allahyari, H.; Habibi, S. Sustainable approach for recycling waste tire rubber and polyethylene tereph-thalate (PET) to produce green concrete with resistance against sulfuric acid attack. J. Clean. Prod. 2016 ,126, 166–177. [CrossRef]151. Suhendro, B. Toward green concrete for better sustainable environment. Proc. Eng. 2014 ,95, 305–320. [CrossRef]152. Alania, A.H.; Johari, M.A.M.; Noaman, A.T.; Bunnori, N.M.; Majid, T.A. Effect of the incorporation of PET ﬁber and ternaryblended binder on the ﬂexural and tensile behaviour of ultra-high performance green concrete. Constr. Build. Mater. 2022 ,311, 127306. [CrossRef]153. Amato, I. Green cement: Concrete solutions. Nature 2013 ,494, 300–301. [CrossRef]154. Agwa, I.S.; Zeyad, A.M.; Tayeh, B.A.; Adesina, A.; de Azevedo, A.R.G.; Amin, M.; Hadzima-Nyarko, M. A comprehensive reviewon the use of sugarcane bagasse ash as a supplementary cementitious material to produce eco-friendly concretes. Mater. TodayProc. 2022, in press . [CrossRef]155. Amran, M.; Fediuk, R.; Abdelgader, H.S.; Murali, G.; Ozbakkaloglu, T.; Lee, Y.H.; Lee, Y.Y. Fiber-reinforced alkali-activatedconcrete: A review. J. Build. Eng. 2022 ,45, 103638. [CrossRef]156. Murugappan, V .; Muthadhi, A. Studies on the inﬂuence of alginate as a natural polymer in mechanical and long-lasting propertiesof concrete—A review. Mater. Today Proc. 2022, in press . [CrossRef]